# Draft of a draft

Always going somewhere, always running around. But how much time has passed
since we questions the very thing we are pursuing? 

We can be overly critical about being lazy, or expending the time idly on
games, or any other distration. However, there is an inherent danger on overly
working; while the first is more obvious to tell apart as a wasting, the latter
might be ignored or even justified. **Example like the post of the value of
time** https://laotze.net/1062 (The value of time) or El Valor del Tiempo 
(https://laotze.net/es/1064)

Not that we should quit our pursue, nor our efforts, but reconsider from time
to time the thing we are after.

We may have lost all interest in it, the object that so badly caught our
attention, be if richness, power, understanding, or love, may not be really
attainable by such means, and if obtained, how long would it last? would it be
worth the effort? is it really that we want? 

We may not single out the fact that sometimes we don't know such answers, and
sometimes we can't realize flames burne before we put our hand in the fire
first.

Having a pursue is one of the most beautiful things in life; it is a chance for
the individual to gain fulfillment, to find meaning in a standalone fashion,
I'd even go as further as saying is one of paths we have most control over.

Yes, doubt could be awful in some circumstances; there may be a time where
there should not be room for it, our determination should be solid rock.
However, I do believe there is moments to call for it.

In the same way we would construct a house, once stablished we would look out
for signals of decaying or errors. For the sake of the ingrity of the house, we
would look for moisture, 


- Find an example of a person, animal, or something that tries really hard to
	acquire something, that once obtained is not use, unfulfilling, or simply
	discarted
- 


As for the introduction, it would be cool to raise an metaphor or an example of
efforts wrongly directed are a waste. 

First, I'd like to present the problem. One would make huge effort toward a
goal, a pursuit, or whatever cross our mind that we deem worth it. Like a game,
we would go to obtain a certain objetive. Unless a game, the objetive is
acquiring something; a state, an emotion, a title, an object, currency in any
of their forms. However, how much time has passed since that object, physical
or abstract, was questioned? In the same way we develop, so our particular
pursue.
It could be the case that, chasing after a shiny
thing, we've got ourselves lost in the forest. Whether we still have it in
sight, we keep running

Then I would take the hand of the reader to explore the very thing I'm
suggesting; taking a look at our internal mechanisms. When looking at our
reasons, and judging if they are still valid to us, we could have different
reactions. We may have lost interst, for example. In such way, we explore the
depth of ourselves. 
However cautious and
meticulous, we should not forget we are error bound. Acceptance of the nature
of learning. The nature of learning.

I'd address something that come up to the readers mind; I don' want him to
quit, nor stop making effort. But raise the doubt when appropiate, make sure
our efforts are not wasted. Remark that doubt, as many things such as fire
itself, could be dangerous but also benefitial if used correctly.

To close the essay, I would propose self examine ourselves. Judge when
appropiate, there would be time when self-doubt would be detrimental to
whatever we attempt. Other times, we would find the silence and quiet to ask a
simply question, why? Perhaps we find a solid thing; but behind there is more
reasons; the thing might be a symbol, a representation of something we want, or
a guaraanteing certain state.


# Title

# Audience and Purpose

## Audicence

To people who feel lost, or sometimes days feel quite heavy without knowing a
reason why, or feel certain resistance in their actions. People who feel that
have conviction in their goal, however something feels off.

## Purpose


### What story are you telling?

To the great lenghts we go, withouh knowing where or why

## Why are you telling this story?

Whether we lost sight of our goals, or there was never really one to begin
with, having present where we are going and why is not only positive to the
mental toughness required, but also will impact the things we do and how we do
them. Besides it will alleviate the dissonance created within ourselves by our
conflicting nature.

### How are you going to tell the story?

- Introduction with relevance to the reader

- Describe the situation or problematic

- The issue about the workaholic archetype. 
	- We can be overly critical about being lazy, or expending the time idly on
games, or any other distration. However, there is an inherent danger on overly
working; while the first is more obvious to tell apart as a wasting, the latter
might be ignored or even justified. **Example like the post of the value of
time** https://laotze.net/1062 (The value of time) or El Valor del Tiempo 
(https://laotze.net/es/1064)

- Taking a look at our internal mechanism
	- We may have lost all interest in it, the object that so badly caught our
attention, be if richness, power, understanding, or love, may not be really
attainable by such means, and if obtained, how long would it last? would it be
worth the effort? is it really that we want? 

We may not single out the fact that sometimes we don't know such answers, and
sometimes we can't realize flames burne before we put our hand in the fire
first.
Acceptance of the nature of learning, the inherent mistakes that we commit
along the way


- Questioning, not quitting
	- Not that we should quit our pursue, nor our efforts, but reconsider from time
to time the thing we are after.


--- 

I'd like to make a introduction with a methaphor that emphasizes the importance
of knowing where our target lies.

Then proceed to explain the problem itself. Something must have been set the
motion; it may have been self motivated or imposed. Explain what a goal is, and
how a diana looks; There is a two way relationship, the thing itself and its
meaning to us which can vary. As the time passes, things change, we change. The
object could remain the same, but its meaning to us not. The more times goes
on, the more the light in the rooms dims. We may be facing the same target
without having it in sight, it may be the case we are in a completely different
room trying in a totally different game.

Once the problematic is clear, we would look at solutions or alternatives. 
Simply asking ourselves what is it we are after, how valid the reasons seem 
to us. To such answer we may find several reactions; a total loss of interest,
partial deviation from the original. It may be scary to disrupt the concept we
have of ourselves, it pushes us to look beyond the image we have of ourselves.

Not quitting, but raising doubt when appropiate.

Propose the examination of the things we do to not stray far from where we want
to be.



# Blueprint

## Opening the door

- Getting to a place is very difficult, specially when we don't know where it
	is. We could be in the very place, and not be able to recognize it.
- Being set in a room, Like being blindfolded, and trying to hit a target. So
    we gather all the
    darts there are, and throw in all directions; we could throw all in the
    same direction hoping for them to reach the objective, or start spinning
    around in hopes the hit some diana. To our suprise, there was no diana set,
    not objective to hit. Despite our great effort, and multiple strategies,
	...
- Why we do somethings determines everything; the how we do it, the quality of
	our experience. Without one, the joys would be less fulfulling and the
	hardships harsher
- However it does not suffice to simply know at some point. 
- Like reading thenews paper one morning and feel one knows everything.
- Our reasons change; in quality, in cuantity, in how we interact with them
- Thus the relevance of exploring ourselves lies, and using doubt
	wisely as a tool

## Momentum

- At some point in our life, something was set in motion
- it may have been self imposed, or from our will (No matter who initiated it)
- But it came to settle, we made a routine, objetives, and molded ourselves to
	it
- We had to. (we were younger, naive, or did not know better)
- For bad or for good, there is a inherent force that keep us in our habits,
	even if slow changes are building on in the background
- The dissonance, or how much feeling something is wrong, becomes apparent **We
  	could elaborate on the specific signals of
	it**
- Some people can simply ignore it, which could be potentially something good,
	you go on to distract yourself, enjoy here and there
- For other people the noise is not so easy to muffle.
- For the latter, we would need to take some sort of action
- For the latter, we need to look such thing in the eye.
- Somos lo que hacemos con lo que hicieron de nosotros

## Our where and why

- The beginning of the end of such dissonance lies in exploring where do we
	want to be and the reasons for it.
- A goal amounts to a particular something we desire to get, because we see
    worth both physicial, as wealth or objects, and abstract, like security,
    power, or influence.
- Goals work as layers; sometimes we desire  unconciously something concrete
    just a means to something instinctual.
- That is our diana in front of us.
- So we must set a plan to obtain our objetive, act on it, evaluate our
    results, and adjust the next actions. We can say if we are closer when we
	know where it is. We do it; do it more, we do it better. We fail, we fail 
	better.
- There would be times when the path is a joy, and we are delighted to transit
	through	it, others in which we would need all the strength we can gather to
	surpass	the obstacles
- But if we don't have a where and why, the enjoyable times will not be
	fulfilling and the hardships harsher.
- Why would anyone be astrayed from pursuing something they desire, be deprived
	of the joys they have at hand, and make their path harder to walk?
- It is rare when a person is extremely detached from the objectives they have,
	unless it was imposed
- Over the time it is natural to exist a deviation, one could correct it, or
	decide a new course
- However, considering the fluid nature of the world, when was the last time we
	look at the goal to examine its validity.

## An exploration of the self

- A search in which we could discover the what and why of the past, but more
	importantly regarding the present. 
- It is easier to simply stick to what we know, than try to discover ourselves
	everyday. It does require more effort. But it is a miracle none the less
	being able to 
- Devote some time to let ourselves be; in a given situation what we want to do
- It does not have to be a time-consuming and hard process. Dedicate some
    minutes a day to ponder, to think
- Sometimes we hold the wrong belief we know ourselves. Fortunate the person
	who recognizes the fluidity of herself, who pays attention each moment for
	its unrevealing
- Do we still see the value in such an objetive? Is there anything else we have
	come to realise of greater value to us? In our particular way of doing and
	being, should there be any changes? Are we going in the right direction?
- Recognition of something broken is the first step toward action, be it repair
    or disposal.
- It may be the case where any wind would be as good for our sail, no course
	seems unfavorable. There is no direction. 


## Doubt as a tool

- Not advocating dessertion, nor stop making effort. but reflection
- Doubt when appropiate
- To explore ourselves, we must question ourselves. 
- Many of the most powerful tools can be as good as bad, the same can be said
	about doubt
- There are moments where doubting would be awful, others where it is the
	wisest thing to do.
- To question what we know.
- Like with any other skill, we shapen our ability by analyzing and improving
    upon it.
- Perhaps we had the wrong assumption the first time should feel smooth to be
	good, the belief that what we do was right. How we answer such questions
	would depend on each of us and the particular time in our lives we may be
	answering. (keep adding wrong assumptions)
- When is it ruinous doubt?
    - When we need the most strength
- The must exist certain willingness to be wrong. 
- The must exist better ways to act, of traits to pursuit, more effective ways,
	things we ignore, better ways to act. 
- Have in our minds the determination to act to the best of our judgement, and
	the acceptance that despite our efforts we are humans

## Closing

- How far can we go without knowing where we want to be?
- Whether we lost sight of our goals, or there was never one to begin with,
	having present where we are going and why will impact the things we do and
	how we do them.
- Wherever our momentumm may have take us may or may not be right. However,
	when we embark ourselves in the exploration of our being, it fall upon us
	to question such validity, and to take action accordingly.
- We can have wrong reasons for doing the right thing, right reasons to do the
	wrong thing
- Take doubt as a valuable tool, 
- It is like knowing the Chrismast's gifts are from your parents, there is not
	going back from that
- I believe we are better knowing we are lost than to mitigate such feeling
	with pointless tasks. At least in the first case we recognize the problema
	and take action. 
- We don't have to have defininte answers

- The war against ourselves is an conflict without ending, it is woven in the very
    fabric of our being. A seemingly conflicting nature. 


- Even if they can be intrinsic, or given rather than created, there exist
    within ourselves goals and reasons that mold the way we interact with the
    world.
- 
- To deal with the internal war, we must rediscover ourselves, the tiny variations that emerge from within. Look directly at what was, and what is.

- 

- We can come to start being, and recognize the intrinsic principles of our
    lives by exploring ourselves, 



# Construction
 Imagine being in a room blindfolded, asked to hit a target with darts, however we don't know
where the diana is. We gather all the darts we can carry in our hands and try different approaches; throwing them all in the same direction hoping for  them to reach their destiny, or change the direction from time to time wishing it would increase our chances. Despite our great effort and multiple strategies, there was no diana set, not objetive to hit. That is the very sceneario we wish to avoid. There exists goals and motives within us. Why we do something  determines everything; the how we do it, the quality of our experience.  However, it doesn't suffice to simply know at some point. Knowledge needs renewal and to be questioned. Our reasons change;  in quality, in cuantity, in how we interact with them, thus the relevance of  exploring ourselves and using doubt wisely as a tool.

## Our what and why

Even if these go unnoticed, the object of our lust and the reasons behind it  are present. What we want amounts to a particular something, while the why  amounts the worth we see in it both physicial, as wealth or objects, and  abstract, like security, or power. More often than not, objects of desire are  not straightfoward; we would lust after a house, a partner, a particular lifestyle because they are symbols of something for us. There would be times when the path is a joy, and we are delighted to transit through. However, there would be times when our goal, and our motives are the only thing preventing us from falling. Over the time, the existence of deviation is natural, and so is the need of rediscovering ourselves.

## Momentum 

At some point in our life, something was set in motion. From inside or outside, it does not matter, it came to settle; we made a routine, objetives, a molded ourselves to it, we had to. We were given a what and why. An identity emerged. For good or bad, there is an inherent force that keep us in our habits, even if slow changes are building on in the background. Such changes could become so  significant, and the strength of the momentum is so great, that dissonance  appears; a feeling of internal conflict, the ideal in contrast to what is, a  war within ourselves, you against you. As with any conflict, we can be caught  off guard but it is seldom created out of nowhere. Some people can simply ignore it, for others the noise is not so easy to muffle. For the latter, something must be done. And that is where we begin to be.

## An exploration of the self

The wrong assumption that we know ourselves can be present since sticking to what we know is easier than rediscovering ourselves everyday. Not  necessarily sudden changes, the small and unnoticed growth is what may suprise us one day. How fortunate the person who recognizes how fluid the self can be,  who pays attention to each moment, doesn't lock herself in a box, and devote  some time to let herself be in a situation. Such consideration doesn't have to be a burdensome nor time-consuming, where we scrutinize the very fabric of  ourselves. We could dare ourselves to try that fruit we did not  like, surprise ourselves with something we couldn't conceive, discover new hobbies, passions, music, books, ideas, and whatnot. But, we must be brave enough to doubt.

## Doubt as a tool

Many of the most powerful tool can be as good as bad, the same can be said about doubt. To explore our what and why we need to question ourselves and what we know. Perhaps we have the supposition that the first time we do something should feel smooth or natural, else we "don't have it", or presume the rain to be bad because it prevents us from doing a particular activity. Certain ideas are limiting or destructive. To doubt is equivalent, in a sense, to  recognize alternatives, and question the valitity of the one we currently use. We must hone the criteria for choosing the right option. There are better  ways to act, traits to pursuit, things we ignore. There must exist the  willingness to be wrong if we want to be better. There are other  ways in which doubt is ruinous, when we need as much strength as we can gather or an idea or belief is being tested, that is the reason to doubt only when is  appropriate.


## Reflect on where you are going

Getting to a place may be difficult, especially when we don't know where it is. We may be in the very place and not be able to recognize it.  How far can we go without knowing where we want to be? Goals and the underlying motives, whether we lost sight of them, there was never one to begin with, or  they are given rather than created, mold the way we interact with the world.  Wherever our momemtum may have take us may or may not be right. However, when we embark ourselves in the exploration of our being, it fall upon us to question our reasoning and take action accordingly. So doubt; the goals, the reasons, verify that the foundation is solid. But be careful of your own doubt.


# Dissent

# Edit
<BS>Imagine being in a room blindfolded and asked to hit a target with darts. However, we don't know where the target is. We try different approaches; throwing them all in the same direction hoping for them to reach their destiny, or changing the direction from time to time, wishing it would increase our chances. Despite our great effort and multiple strategies, there was no target set, nor objective to hit. That is the very scenario we wish to avoid. There exist goals and motives within us. Why we do something determines everything; how we do it, the quality of our experience.  However, it doesn't suffice to know at some point. Knowledge needs renewal and to be questioned. Our reasons change;  in quality, in quantity, in how we interact with them, thus the relevance of exploring ourselves and using doubt wisely as a tool.

## Our what and why

Even if these go unnoticed, the object of our lust and the reasons behind it are present. What we want amounts to a particular something, while the why corresponds to the worth we see in it both physical, as wealth or objects, and abstract, like security, or power. More often than not, objects of desire are not straightforward; we would lust after a house, a power, or a particular lifestyle because they symbolize something to us. There would be times when the path is a joy, and we are delighted to transit through. However, there would be times when our what and why are the only things preventing us from falling. Have we thought about such a delicate matter before? Where do our goals come from?

## Momentum

At some point in our life, something was set in motion. From inside or outside, it does not matter, it came to settle; we made a routine, and objectives, a molded ourselves to it, we had to. We were given a what and why. An identity emerged. For good or bad, there is an inherent force that keeps us in our habits, even if slow changes are building on in the background. Such changes could become so significant, and the strength of the momentum is so great, that dissonance appears; a feeling of internal conflict, the ideal in contrast to what is, a war within ourselves, you against you. As with any conflict, we can be caught off guard but it is seldom created out of nowhere. Some people can simply ignore it, for others, the noise is not so easily muffled. For the latter, something must be done.  Thus the need to rediscover ourselves. And that is where we begin to be.

## An exploration of the self

The wrong assumption that we know ourselves can be present since sticking to what we know is easier than rediscovering ourselves every day. The small and unnoticed growth is what may surprise us one day. How fortunate the person who recognizes how fluid the self can be,  who pays attention to each moment, doesn't lock herself in a box, and devotes some time to let herself be in a situation. Such consideration doesn't have to be burdensome nor time-consuming, where we scrutinize the very fabric of ourselves. We could dare ourselves to try that fruit we did not like, surprise ourselves with something we couldn't conceive, or discover new hobbies, passions, music, books, ideas, and whatnot. But, we must be brave enough to doubt.

## Doubt as a tool

Many of the most powerful tools can be as good as bad, the same can be said about doubt. To explore our what and why we need to question ourselves and what we know. Perhaps we have the supposition that the first time we do something should feel smooth or natural, or else we "don't have it", or presume the rain to be bad because it prevents us from going outside. Certain ideas are limiting or destructive. To doubt is equivalent, in a sense, to recognize alternatives, and question the validity of the one we currently use. We must hone the criteria for choosing the right option. There are better ways to act, traits to pursue, and things we ignore. There must exist the willingness to be wrong if we want to be better. There are other ways in which doubt is ruinous, when we need as much strength as we can gather or an idea or belief is being tested, that is the reason to doubt only when is appropriate.

## Reflect on where you are going

Getting to a place may be difficult, especially when we don't know where it is. We may be in the very place and not be able to recognize it.  How far can we go without knowing where we want to be? Goals and the underlying motives, whether we lost sight of them, there was never one to begin with, or they are given rather than created, mold the way we interact with the world.  Wherever our momentum may have taken us may or may not be right. However, when we embark on the exploration of our being, it falls upon us to question our reasoning and take action accordingly. So doubt; the goals, the reasons, verify that the foundation is solid. But be careful of your doubt.



# No used

- All the effort, stress, and whatever comes along the way is pointless, with or
without a why. However, enjoy the path is easier if we know that.

- Sometimes we hope we are wrong

- We can have wrong reasons for doing the right thing, right reasons for doing the wrong thing. 











