---
lang: en
title: A layer of ourselves in everything we touch
excerpt:
type: post
tags: []
---
We put a layer of ourselves in everything we touch.

We are not merely singing, writing, baking a cake, or even programming a computer. In each activity we participate in, we leave a mark of ourselves influenced by our past, the emotions, the narrative that our minds construct, the values we strive for, the person we are, and the one we are becoming in that very instant.

The sum of every decision we make in an activity represents that layer of ourselves. It is what sets us apart, and what could, if done consciously, elevate our activity to a whole different level.

However, are we aware of the kind of mark we create? They are a reflection of ourselves. If we dare to look at them frankly, would they be pleasing, or would we rather look away?

## It’s not the task, it’s you

The layer of ourselves we find in anything we touch is made of all the decisions we make in our activities. The reason we make those in the first place is taste, shaped by the values we believe in, the narrative in our heads that makes sense of the world, our highs and lows, our laughs and cries, and our experience.

Composers are a great example; there are many different themes for their lyrics and even more different ways the same message is expressed, and yet they have a natural inclination toward some way or another. Writing, singing, acting, and painting are all ways of stating something, and they are excellent means to do so.

However, there are also more subtle activities in which we can show our colors; what we do when there is silence, how we read, what we do when we like and dislike something, or even baking a cake.

You measure, whisk, combine, pour, and bake. But no one can make the same cake as we do. It is in the extra care we give to the eggs, or taking a little longer on the mixing, the small details and decisions along the process that mold your cake, and in turn ourselves.

It’s not simply a cake, it’s you.

## A real-time indicator

Looking at that personal signature we leave in everything we touch is an accurate way of looking at who we are and who we are becoming.

What aspects of ourselves are we presenting? Are they careless? Do they reflect the values we believe in? Do they follow the vision we have for ourselves, or have we been defeated by laziness, mediocrity, or conformity?

Every time we act, we shape ourselves and forge a mark on everything we do. Does the cake align with our burning desire for excellence? Does it comply with our standards? What is in front of us is a reflection of ourselves that we are glad to see, or one that makes us avert our gaze?

We must act, not by inertia, but by deliberate design.

## A conscious layer of ourselves

We can shape how the layer of ourselves is by acquiring taste and observing the marks we leave frankly.

### Develop taste

To have taste, first we need to discover the script we need to follow to do it right. Learn the basics of your activity. How do I even bake a cake? What are the ingredients? What are the necessary steps?

Once we know how things work, we can alter the script a bit. You start experimenting, creating new steps, or completely removing others. You ask yourself…

- What would happen if I reduced the butter?
- If I add cinnamon, what could change?
- This may be crazy, but what if I add two bananas?

We learn how the changes affect our results, and this will, little by little, shape your taste. We can even come to break the script.

Finally, you share what you know with other people. Whether teaching or just swapping notes, it allows us to solidify what we know and learn from other people’s experiences.

We learn from the successes and failures of others’ cakes, what worked for them, and the fact that we teach someone else how to reproduce our findings is proof that what we know is robust.

### Observe the layer you just applied

Do your activity in the same way you would regularly. However, set aside a few minutes to appreciate what you have just done. Be honest and ask yourself questions such as…

- What does this reflect about me?
- Do I find this pleasing?
- Does it align with my standards?

Admitting we don’t like something we did is heartbreaking, but it is the only way we can improve it. If the result is not something you expected or like, identify what it is, why you don’t like it, and change it. You must repeat this process as many times as you need.

## A reflection of everything we are

This is exactly how our personal signature elevates any task we decide to focus on to a whole different level. We treat each task as an extension of ourselves, a reflection of who we are and who we are becoming. We put everything we are: our story, character, ideas, mind, and effort into it. We differentiate and mold the activity and ourselves by tiny moments, decision by decision.

However, whether that adds beauty or ugliness to what we have in our hands is up to us. If it ever deviates from our vision, we have to be honest with ourselves and make the necessary adjustments.

No matter if the task allows us great expression or a more subtle presence, we are always there.

The layer of ourselves attached to anything we touch is the mark we are leaving, and hopefully one that we are proud of
