---
lang: en
title: Obtain tranquility through conquering your emotions
excerpt:
date: 2025-01-15
type: post
tags: []
---
Is that activity so important, or rewarding, as to justify your spent time or merely a means to deal with a torment? There are emotions through which we can experience pain, such as grief, fear, disappointment, loneliness, melancholy, or despair. The sting could be unbearable to the extent of feeling like a thrust with a blade. Some might say fear cuts deeper than swords. To this, we must answer somehow, and the action taken, or lack of action, will have repercussions. We choose to conquer or avert our gaze from our emotions.

## Distraction, the noisier the better

Distraction is one of the most common approaches to avoid pain. We would look for something noisier than our thoughts, consume entirely the focus available, or render our ability to think useless, like ceasing to exist momentarily. We are not concerned with whether a particular activity is constructive or destructive, but the reason we find ourselves seduced by it — the promise of cheap comfort. Yes, we might discover temporal relief. Nevertheless, when we awake from that sweet sleep, the dread might come again, stronger. Then a cycle of endless chase after mindlessness starts again. 

## Exploring the concept of conquering emotions
The alternative is not as pleasant, nor easy, but provides a way of acquiring tranquility more stably; conquering our emotions. Such a task not merely consists of making peace with the feeling but also absorbing its impact and having the courage to moderate it. We allow ourselves to coexist, explore, and comprehend this sensation, its root, and its meaning. We can't let it consume us, however. Even if, some nightmares are harsh and we do not want to look them in the eye, the choice of how we act falls upon us. We must gather the strength to decide what is the best and take action accordingly. At this point, we might not be happy, but at least we can be at peace.

## A prudent approach toward conquering our emotions

The alternative is not as pleasant, nor easy, but it provides a way of acquiring tranquility more stably; conquering our emotions. Such a task not merely consists of making peace with the feeling but also having the courage to moderate it and resist the knockdown. We allow ourselves to coexist, explore, and comprehend this sensation, its root, and its meaning. We can't let it consume us, however. Even if, some nightmares are harsh and we do not want to look them in the eye, the choice of how we act falls upon us. We must gather the strength to decide what is the best and take action accordingly.

The futility of using distraction as a solution is evident; not only will it be brief, and high-maintenance, but also the emotion we fear might be reignited anytime from whatever situation we find ourselves in. Instead, we must transition to the conquering of our emotions; have the courage not to avert our gaze, and be willing to accept that part of the self. As we drop the struggle against ourselves, tranquility will emerge, and there will be enough room for our feelings to breathe, to express themselves as our particular nature wills it. 
