---
lang: en
title: The best of ourselves
excerpt:
type: post
tags: []
---
Giving the best of ourselves is not always what we want to do. There is a distorted idea of effort that propels us to push ourselves to unreasonable extents. How can we finish a book monthly when we can't read a page daily? The reality is, if we don't look at such standards for what they are, a vision or a goal rather than an immediate action or a metric to judge ourselves, we won't be able to celebrate the tiny everyday victories, or we will feel discouraged at being so far in comparison. We need to understand that giving the best of ourselves is not about other people or pushing ourselves mindlessly. What is at risk is not getting where we want to be, or even worse, we won't be enjoying the path along the way.

## A toxic notion of effort

We have to do eighty push-ups right after waking up, study for eight hours straight, and then work 14 hours. Oh, don't forget the workout. If we can't meet such criteria, we must be doing something wrong. The issue with this particular line of thinking is not the exaggeration of the example, nor our capacity to accomplish such feats, but ignoring that growth works by progressive improvements. Achievements or goals could be used as inspiration, lessons, or marks that we will surpass one day. The appeal of expanding our horizons or having high standards is undeniable. However, giving the best of ourselves goes beyond doing a certain number of reps or sticking to a book for hours. 

## An admirable example

There is a man who goes to the outdoor gym often. He looks his years; gray hair, quite slim, always wearing a t-shirt, jeans, and shoes not meant for working out. What stands out is not the technique for his push-ups, nor the amount of reps; we can observe his struggle against gravity, but his will to do his part. It would make no sense for him to compare himself against his peers in terms of resistance or strength. His focus is on being constant and pushing his limits further each day. He measures himself against his past self. In him, we can find a clue as to what it means to give the best of ourselves, knowing our limits and trying to expand them.

## Our dynamic limitations

A limit is the maximum amount of something: the amount of time we can spend reading, reps of some exercise, or information we can process in a given time. However, limits are not static. They can be expanded or contracted, depending on whether we push them. Limits represent imaginary lines that could serve as an indicator of our progress. If we can do only 10 push-ups, we aim for 11. If we can only concentrate on a text for 5 minutes, we aim for 10. In such a fashion, we will stretch this mental line to the next level. Limits may be set wrongly in our minds, however. We are capable of much more than we believe. There lies the importance of knowing ourselves. The only way to discover where our true limitations are is by experimentation. We need to check if we need more or less weight. 

## The true definition

Such an effort is trying to go over that line every time, notice little progress, and try to surpass it the next day. But giving the best of ourselves means more than that. Some day we will not exceed the line, so our objective should be the line. Some days we will not reach the line, so our objective should be to go as close as we can. Some days we won't have time, nor mental strength, but despite this, we keep giving all we have, as little as it may be. As described in "Make any activity an immersive activity", we need to pour ourselves into the task.

## We need to give the best of ourselves

There are factors we do not control: genetics, circumstances, materials, and whatnot. But giving the best of ourselves is one of the things we have control over. That is what the described man inspires; it doesn't matter our current level on anything, if we do the best we can each time, and try to surpass our current limitations, we are bound to thrive. However, such a thing does not happen by itself. We will need self-knowledge to tell when to push ourselves further, or when to be kind, have a tighter or a looser grip,  recognize our true limits, and expand them. The process implies a conscious effort and documentation of our journey. 
