---
lang: es/en
title: My Title
type: post
tags: [linux, cli]
---


# Title

- Change your strategy, conquer your emotions
- Get tranquility, conquer your emotions
- Get tranquility through conquering your emotions
- Be at peace through conquering your emotions
- Stillness through conquering your emotions 

# Audicence and purpose


## Audicence

Everyone who struggles with deceiving themselves instead of facing the root of
the problem

## Purpose

To state that the path toward peace of mind if not through self-deception, but
conquering our emotions

## Bluprint

### Opening the door

- Pain, or the root of our desire to deceive ourselves 
	- From grief, fear, sorrow, dissapointment, loneliness, melancholy, or
		dispair
	- We sometimes only know we wish it would be tangible, so that tearing it
		away from our chest is possible
	- When looking a way out, anything that gives a vague answer sounds good.
	- However, none of these might be definite, and we might discover we need
		to conquer our emotions
	- The body naturally shutsdown if there is no alternative to pain

### Surveying the contents of the room 

- Not purposeless self-deception and its problem
	- Distraction is a comman strategy toward copying with this feeling
	- We give ourselves in to anything that is noisier than our thoughts, give
		not space for them to exist, or render us imcapable of producing them.
	- It has to do more about why are they carried than the action itself.
	- However, eventually we come out of that sweet sleep to be face again with
		what pain us. 
	- We then loop back to whatever we were doing, faster, harder, greater, so
		the torment does not continue
	- It is not a sustainble solution

- Explore the concept of conquering emotions
	- The alternative is not pleasant by any means, at least at the beginning.
		Conquering our emotions.
	- It is not only to understand and accept, conquering our emotions is also have
		the courage to moderate the way we are feeling, to not let us knock
		down
	- allowing ourselves to coexist with it
	- And Often helps understanding of the situation
	- Middle way, as we do not supress, nor distract from our emotions, we
		can't allow it to consume us; 
	- There are nightmares that will be fucking difficult, makes us want to
		give up, not to do a thing, that we don't want to look in the eye
	- The choice of how we act, and what we do, falls upon us however. We must
		gather the strenght to decide what is best and take action accordingly

- Strength in conquering our emotions
	- We are likely to find objects that reminds us of it, more so when the
		wound is fresh and sensible.
    - Although they might be already forgotten, new challenges will raise
	- There is certain pair of the experience which looses strenght once we
		face them
	- We are no rushing to the next thing, in
		need of some stimulous to wipe off any bitter feeling
	- Conquering our emotions do not promise happiness, but tranquility

- A human approach to conquering one's emotions
    - Even if conquering ones emotions is the ideal we strive for, some blows
        will be overwhelming.
    - Pose the question, should we give up? No.
    - Finding a human approach is the right answer
	- Thinking ourself flawless, or invincible is delusional;
	- We will falter, what matter is the ability to bounce back
	- If the weight is oppresive, we could lay it off, drag it, or directly
        rest and come back later.
    - The importance of matching the model to the best we can



	- There is the danger of indulgence; the object the ease our emotions
		externally might prove too sweet, and instead of an remedy, it becomes
		a hindrance.
	- Distracting ourselves works as painkillers in a way; the pain we feel
		from a injury is mitigated, and makes recovery more bearing. We can't
		live off pain-killers however. 

# Closing Closing
	- conquering whatever nagging pain is the best could do, given that is bound to come back eventually if ignored.
    - The task of facing challenging emotions must be done while overcoming
        obstacles, mindful of our own pacing
    - Be aware of the perils of the futility of distracting ourselves as
        solution
	- Next time we are face with struggle, we are going to be more resilent,
		harder to be shaken


# Writing

That activity is so important, or rewarding, as to justify your spent time, or 
it is merely a means to deal with a torment? There are emotions 
through which we can experience pain, such as grief, fear,
dissapointment, loneliness, melancholy, or dispair to name a few. The sting 
could be unberable to the extent of feeling like being thrusted with a blade. 
Some might say fear cuts deeper thans swords. To this we must answer somehow, and the
action taken, or lack of action, will have repercussions.
We choose to stare at, that is to say conquering, or averting our gaze from 
our emotions.

Distraction is one of the most common approaches to avoid pain. We would look for something
that noisier than our thoughts, consume entirely the focus available, render 
our ability to think useless, like ceasing to exist momentarily. We are not
concerned with whether a particular activity is constructive or destructive, but the
reason we find ourselves seduced by it; the promise of cheap comfort. Yes, we might 
find temporal relief. Nevertheless, when we come back from that sweet sleep, 
the dread might come again, stronger. Then the cycle of endless chase after 
mindlessness starts again. 

The alternative is not as pleasant, nor easy, but rather provides a way of
acquiring tranquility in a more stable fashion; conquering our emotions. Such
task consist of looking straight at the source of our distress, coexist with
the emotion, and more importantly, make peace with it. Along the way we will
find objects and situations that remind us of the sorrowful reality, more so
when the wound is fresh and sensible. However, we will be acquinted with the 
emotion, thus there is no fleeing, no rush to empty promises. Restlessness is 
replaced by serenity, in the same way water becomes still when left alone.

Even if conquering one's emotions is the ideal we must strive for, often the
blow is overwhelming, able to knock us down. Should we give up on our pursue?
No. Rather, finding a humane approach to such endevour is the right answer,
which is impossible if we have the delusional perception that we are flawless,
or invincible. We will falter. The ability of bouncing back has a higher 
impact than never err however. That is to say, we must model the archetype to the best of 
our ability. If the weight is too opresive, we can put it down, drag it, or 
rest to start fresh tomorrow. 

The futility of using distraction as a solution is evident; not only will it be
brief, and be high-maintenance, but also the emotion we fear might be reignated
anytime from whatever situation we find ourselves in. Instead we must
transition to the conquering of our emotions; have the courage of not averting
our gaze, be willing to accept that part of the self. As we drop the struggle
against ourselves, tranquility will emerge, and there will be enough room for
our feeling to breath, to express itself as our particular nature wills it. 


# Edited

Is that activity so important, or rewarding, as to justify your spent time or merely a means to deal with a torment? There are emotions through which we can experience pain, such as grief, fear, disappointment, loneliness, melancholy, or despair. The sting could be unbearable to the extent of feeling like a thrust with a blade. Some might say fear cuts deeper than swords. To this, we must answer somehow, and the action taken, or lack of action, will have repercussions. We choose to conquer or avert our gaze from our emotions.

## Distraction, the noisier the better

Distraction is one of the most common approaches to avoid pain. We would look for something noisier than our thoughts, consume entirely the focus available, or render our ability to think useless, like ceasing to exist momentarily. We are not concerned with whether a particular activity is constructive or destructive, but the reason we find ourselves seduced by it — the promise of cheap comfort. Yes, we might discover temporal relief. Nevertheless, when we awake from that sweet sleep, the dread might come again, stronger. Then a cycle of endless chase after mindlessness starts again. 

## Exploring the concept of conquering emotions
The alternative is not as pleasant, nor easy, but provides a way of acquiring tranquility more stably; conquering our emotions. Such a task not merely consists of making peace with the feeling but also absorbing its impact and having the courage to moderate it. We allow ourselves to coexist, explore, and comprehend this sensation, its root, and its meaning. We can't let it consume us, however. Even if, some nightmares are harsh and we do not want to look them in the eye, the choice of how we act falls upon us. We must gather the strength to decide what is the best and take action accordingly. At this point, we might not be happy, but at least we can be at peace.

## A prudent approach toward conquering our emotions

The alternative is not as pleasant, nor easy, but it provides a way of acquiring tranquility more stably; conquering our emotions. Such a task not merely consists of making peace with the feeling but also having the courage to moderate it and resist the knockdown. We allow ourselves to coexist, explore, and comprehend this sensation, its root, and its meaning. We can't let it consume us, however. Even if, some nightmares are harsh and we do not want to look them in the eye, the choice of how we act falls upon us. We must gather the strength to decide what is the best and take action accordingly.

The futility of using distraction as a solution is evident; not only will it be brief, and high-maintenance, but also the emotion we fear might be reignited anytime from whatever situation we find ourselves in. Instead, we must transition to the conquering of our emotions; have the courage not to avert our gaze, and be willing to accept that part of the self. As we drop the struggle against ourselves, tranquility will emerge, and there will be enough room for our feelings to breathe, to express themselves as our particular nature wills it. 

# Title alternatives





















