---
lang: es/en
title: My Title
type: post
tags: [linux, cli]
---

# Title

 - struggles and joy that came through Laotze's Dialogues
 - Challenges

## Audience and Purpose

### Audicence

People who look forward their own project, still not yet there but are working
on it

People who already are working on their own projects and can feel related with
the success of other people

### Purpose

Share insight gained from creating my blog; the joy of creation, and the
trouble I've been through

#### What story are you telling?

The adventure of going after something the blog I wanted to build, and all the
struggles that came with it

#### Why are you telling this story?

In the future, myself or somebody else, might need a push toward keep going to
the goals they want, perhaps they don't know everything yet, but we can get
there.

As a reminder of the things I've accomplished

#### How are you going to tell that story?

##### Ideals and Daydreaming 
I'd like to tell the story from the ideal; how great was the idea of having a
blog, to publish there weekly, to write and have ideas, which could have ended
up there.

##### All the things I had no idea I had to do (technical)
Then I had to deal with all sort of technical side stuff; linking the server
and the domain, why isn't my domain accessible? What exactly am I going to
write about? I'd like it to be bilingual, but how am I going to implement that
functionality?


##### Uncertainty, lots of it (Philosophical)
There was a lot of uncertainty website wise, not taking into consideration
whatever professional and personal side of thing happened

How much how myself would I pour over this piece of art I'm creating? How much
of myself am I willing to share?

Success or not success, good or bad idea

Creating the blog not only challenged me as a professional, my language skills,
or writing, the challenge reach even myself, the view of the world, and how
much I was willing to do for it, basic concepts of the world.

I believe I would have stop, or rather not start directly if I was aware of all
the things that needed to be thought of.

##### The present
I had to learnt a lot, I had to adapt my vision, my plans. Watch a bunch of
courses on how to; build a website, design, write effectively, tell a story,
translation, and what not. I'm amazed to look back, and think I'm writing write
now the second post for my blog.

There is still uncertainty, I believe there always be not only that, but also
things I can learn in so many areas, it could be overwhelming. However, in the
same way I build this blog, we don't have to do it all at once, nor way to
perfect circumstances. Sometimes you just got to jump right in.

## Blueprint

### Questions

- What are the aspects I enjoyed the most?
- What lessons did I learn from this experience?
	- Trust my ability to adapt to challenges. I did not know many of the
		abilities I would eventually require, however I managed to identify
		what I needed, and learn it.
- What could I have done better?
	- Perhaps know more the grounds (on the technical and writing), but more
		preparation would take also more time. I believe I can learn along the
		way some aspects

### Items 

#### Opening the door

- The goals you might have might differ greatly from other people
- However, there are constants in each goal; all appear from something which
    brings meaning to us, there could be skills to master in order to perfect a
    technique, or the facing of vague and hard to answer questions. 
- A story, even if the context is not align with ourselves, could spark the
    beginning of an adventure, refresh our motivation, or plant seeds which
    could flourish some day, or never. 
- Present the particular story of Laotze's Dialogues materialization.
- the ideals that made them come to life, and the struggle that came with it 

- The pursue of an ideal I believe in
- The technical how to in the way
- The uncertanty of a great pursue

#### Ideals and Daydreaming 

- Imagine you could take every actity you enjoy, and transform it into one
- I did not want half-hearted attempts, so I spared no effort.
- I've always like reading, 
- Be amazed by an ideas and thoughts of great minds
- Take great pleasure in dialogue, with both friends made of paper, and flesh
    and bones
- Learning how to live was a incredible, besides useful topic
- and at some point I jumped the border to writing.
- It was nothing fancy, I was my own reader. Then
- I had the idea of transforming my writing to something with more complexity,
	not just having in mind myself. Art instead of a rough sketch. 
- The jump from being a consumer to a creator
- The answer the perfectly fitted was the creation of a blog;
- The taste for discussing ideas, look for them, 
- for writing
- Technical knowledge from my profession

### All the things I had no idea of or the how to 

- An idea might sound great on paper; we are motivated by the vision of our end
    result. However, somtimes we don't understand the size of challenge until
    we start working.
- Saying that because I'm a computer engineer I can build a website it's
    the equivalent of saying because someone is a doctor, he can operate hands.
- There are a lot of fields, and web development was not one of them, even if I
    did count with basic notions.
- This is without taking into account all the other dimensions;
    - My writing skills and ability to tell a story
    - The piece of text must be then translated into Spanish, which requires
        grace of their own
    - All the process of building the website must netly fit with the rest of
        external demands and affairs
- There was a myriad of skills to not only learn, but practice.


- Even though this, I tackle each problem one by one
- To define and understand what is the roadblock right now, and evaluate a proper response
- Do so in each situation; 
    - sometimes it was learning something
    - Provide a creative solution
    - Just come back later and start fresh
- The key is not the be overwhelmed by the size of the goal, but break it down
    into pieces
- I foresaw many of the skills I would need, others I did not. 
- Be mentally prepared to expect what we don't consider
- However I learnt everything I need

- Looking over notes and old planning, I was satisfied by how throughout I was;
	all the structure and definition are faithful to what it is today my
	website. Even if not a complete roadmap

- But all the problems were not so easy to approach

### Uncertainty, lots of it

- There werew challenges that came up with have something in common; these had
    no simple answer.
- Creating the blog not only challenged me as a professional, my language skills,
	or writing, the challenge reach myself as a person, my view of the world, and
    how	much I was willing to do for my goal.
- Uncertainty was another aspect to face
- Skills are easily tackle; some problem solving and knowledge of the area and
    you can start working

- However, ask yourself how would you answer the question of 
- Taking an artistic means, say paiting, music, or writing, flexible and
    limitless as they are, and give it an arbitrary shape?
- Measuring success of an endevour?
- How much how myself are we willing to give up for a particular goal?
- How much of myself should I pour over this piece of art I'm creating? 
- How much of myself am I willing to share?
- In general, how do you confront a situation which does not have a absolute
    answer?

### The acceptance of uncertainty

- Complete centainty of somthing is not a requisite to pursue whatever has
    mening to us
- No condition is going to be perfect, it could even be unfavorable
- There still uncertainty on the blog 
- These are inherent aspects of goals
- To the question which hold no absolute answer, we must answer individually.
- The response might take years, and be uncomfortable
- We might look insight into some readings, experiences, and what not
- In the end we must answer ourselves

### The present


- To this date, there still exist uncertainty and a plethora of skills to
    master, both are constants which will be found on every goal we lay our
    eyes upon
- No condition is going to be perfect, could even be unfavorable
- There is only left the acceptance of that condition
- However, those are not requirement for pursuing whatever has meaning for us.
- I could even argue that the struggle makes the effort worthwhile.
- We can start at our own pace; planning, learning, organizing, getting each day a bit
      closer to the goal we want to accomplish.
- However we do it, we need to start now.
- Amazed to look back at all the experiences I had, and be here writing a post for my
    blog.
- There is greater work in this nwe writing, however I believe there is more
    satisfaction in both creating, as much as in reading it.
- Complexity has increased; my writing now goes beyond me, and its process
    requires more effort
- It's harder to do
- However, in the same way as many other pursuits, the struggle makes the
    effort worthwhile.;
- I never relish writing and reading more than I do now.
		
-

## Construction

A story, even if foreign to our reality, could spark the beginning of an
adventure, refresh our motivation, or plant seeds which could flourish some
day, or never. Our objetives might differ vastly from other people in 
complexity, context, or motives. However, there are constants in each goal; 
all intent arises from something which brings meaning to us or causes 
emotion, there will be skills to master in order to perfect a technique or a
product, or the the facing of vague and hard to answer questions. I would like
to share with you the particular story of Laotze's Dialogues materizalization,
the ideas that made them come to life, and the struggles that came along. 

Imagine you could take activities you enjoy, and combine them into one. 
Reading is an incredible way of exploring the worldview of great minds and our
own, specially so when leads to dialogue. "What if I also create, rather than 
just consume?" I asked myself. For a long time, I was pleased with being my own
reader. However, the desire to expand writing beyond myself emerged. So I kept 
asking, what is the next step? A blog was the opportunity to accomplish such a
task; the project will promote the search for new thoughts, creative ways of 
expression, present the need to push my technical skills, besides being a
place where my writing could live, be visitted, and shared. I spared no effort.

An idea might sound great on paper, but sometimes we don't conceive the size
of a challenge until we jump in. There were a lot of areas I had to work on 
before the website would be ready, such as the tecnical side, writing, 
translations, and everything I could not foresee. It was overwhelming. 
Sometimes that impact could be the end of an idea. However, we don't have to do
it all at once. I broke the process down into a plan for the overall structure,
the steps to follow, and left room for the unexpected. By focusing on a
fragment of the problem, we could grasp its nature, therefore being closer to
the solution. But not all obstacles were so straightfoward.

There were challenges with something in commmon; these had no simple answer.
The creation of the blog not only did stretch my skills, but also tested me as
a person. Uncertainty was another aspect to face. Abilities are simple to 
tackle; knowledge of the area, problem-solving, practice, and you are
set. However, how do you confront a situation which does not have an
absolute answer? Ask yourself how you would take an artistic means, flexible 
and limitless as they are, and give it an arbitrary shape, how much of yourself
are you willing to pour over this piece of art? how much of yourself are you 
willing to give up for your ideals?

Being completedly prepared and having absolute certainty are not requirements
for pursing whatever objective. To this date, there still exist uncertainty, 
and a plethora of skills to master regarding Laotze's Dialogues, constants 
which will be found on every goal we pursue. Regarless of such conditions, at
our own scale and pace, we must take the first step now by planning the what 
and how, mastering skills necessary, organizing our resources, objectively 
evaluating our progress, learning from our errors, providing our unique answer
to the vague questions we are presented with, and repeat. The complexity of my
writing has increased; it goes beyong me, the process is arduous, and I never
relish writing and reading more than now.




## Dissent

## Edit







# Discarted 

##### Resolution
- Reading old texts, I noticed the idea of a blog was already there
- I had taken the decision to give all I had constructing the idea I had in
	my mind.
- I did not want half hearted measures, all in.

##### Engineering
- A couple months ago, the idea crossed my mind again. Being a computer
	engineer, the idea did not seemed to daunting.

- All of them were not foreseen; along the way I find myself in need of
    learning about specific topic, mostly technical. There were more obvious
    aspects like design and writing itself
- There was a lot I had to learn;
    - From the technical details 
    - Design

- Today I expanded my horizons

- The uncertainty of how
	- Even though I'm a computer engineer, it does not imply web development
		is my area
	- It's like saying I'm a doctor, I could therefore perform a heart surgery.
	- There were a lot of learning and challenges; no idea how I was going to
		implement translations, features, design, and management
	- I instructed myself in the areas I thought prudent and when need called
		for
	- I try to look just in the step I had in front ot me, have clear the ones
		incoming
	- I've always written, but this process is different. 
	- Stretch my language abilities as well; Weirdly enough, I've composed text
		in English, so translating into Spanish has been quite a challenge as
		well.
	- My nitpicky nature,
	- I tried not to oversaturate me on one aspect; sometimes I would work on
		the technical side, I'd switch to writing and composition later, design
		the layout of the website, or testing
	- Uncertainty on what to write about, how to implement it

- Motivations

- The joy of creation
	- Internal and external goals
	- The blog is already a success for me; is a place where I can share
		thoughts, when if I'm the only one reading.
	- The art processof the writing is fastinating as well; how to tackle a
		topic, express idea, 

An idea might sound great on paper, but sometimes we don't understand the size
of a challenge until we jump in. Saying that because I'm a computer engineer
I can build a website it's the equivalent of saying because someone is a
doctor, they can operate hands. There are a lot of fields, and web development
was not one of my strong suits. We should not forget the other dimensions of
the blog, like building robust writings skills, how to tell a story, pieces of
text must be translated into Spanish, and all this process must fit with the
rest of external demands and affairs. There was a myriad of skills to not only
mastered, but practiced. I learned everything I needed, foreseen or not. Still, all 
the problems were not so easy to approach.



Imagine you could take every activity you enjoy, and combine them into one. 
Reading is an incredible way of exploring the worldview of great minds and our
own, specially so when leads to dialogue with both friends made of paper, or
flesh and bones. What if I also create, rather than just consume? I asked 
myself, and answered by writing. For a long time, I was pleased with being my 
own reader. However, the desire to expand this craft beyond me emerged. So























