---
lang: es/en
title: My Title
type: post
tags: [linux, cli]
---

# Raw material

- Every great loss comes with a great grief
- The feeling of that object of love in front of of you, no to be the same ever
	again, confronted with that cruel reality in front of your eyes
	People try tyo put onto that pain some flavour; blaming ourselvesfind fault
	in the other's character, numbing, distracting
- There is a connection, or influence to the person
- One's color is tainted by the other person, by choice or not
- Even the object of love is no longer there, we can still experience it, not
	without accepting the pain
- We still have ourselves and the changes love has brought about
- I refuse to close my heart to the pain, to destry the joy you brought, and
	the pain of your departe alike
- Don't kill something inside yourself twice; departure and your memory
- We don't absorb the blow all at once, sometimes we are oblivious, the reality
	falling apart when little by little we have to encounter such a harsh
	reality
-  The desire to mask it someone to make it more chewable. By blaming, numbing,
	distraction, 
- But why? why masking that pain with something? Because it is unberable.
	However, what is this pain if not pure love turnaround? And if so, why not
	have the same openness toward pain if it's the same coin? Pain is not by
	any means enjoyable, 
- When accepting any kind of pleasure, there is a natural counter part. In the
	same extent we feel love, we feel pain. This pain is a proof of that great
	love we felt
- The eternal, timeless, scar
- Love and pain are two inseparable aspect of the same coin
- I say that the dissappereance of that someone is like something dying inside
	of us. However, I also believe they live for ever in us, in some way
- That kind of love does not go anywhere; reference to the midnight gospel last
	chapter
- The feeling of being around debris; it's calm, a empty calm
- Pain itself must not inherently have a lesson, we can learn from it however.
- I would like to cover
	- The feeling of losing 
	- After a while, when some reminders appear on a daily basis
	- And lesson, the extraction of meaning; that love does not go anywhere,
		facing the pain plainly, acceptance of it, awareness of mortality,
		awareness of finite, 
- Something indeed dies with them, it feels like being torn apart, something is
	taken from you.
- Something beautiful stays, sometimes is ourselve who kills whatever is left
	just to end the pain, we just want it to end.
- Definition of saudade; Sentimento causado pela distancia ou ausencia de algo
	ou alguem
- I don't belive accepting the pain openly is safest way to process grief.
	However, I do believe is the one which will make us feel more alive, after
	all, we feel pleasure to the same extent we feel pain.
- We can't have good without evil, beauty without ugliness, joy without pain.
	The erradication of one is the end of the other.
- Something died within us already, we don't want lose ourselves, we don't want
	to kill anything else. 
- Pain won't last forever; eventually it will decresase. However if we kill it
	before its time, we would be killing the joy of the memory, as well as part
	of ourselves.
- Somehow implement the fact of fluctiation, life changing.

- From where does the thought "we should accept this pain" comes from?
    - We accept the pain because is the reflection of that love
    - As a way of respect for the person, and its significance
    - Because not letting ourselves feel this pain, would be to close ourselves
        to joy as well.
    - Because part of ourselve died, but other one lives still.

- Grief letters
    - This is a time of great turbulance, great chances could spur from this
    - The heaviness, not wanting to do anything
    - nov 28
    - The fear of encountering a different reality, opening wounds, or being
        hurt again
    - 

# Title

- A piece of you will always live within me
- Making sense of the lost of a loved one
- Making sense out of grief -> Encontrando sentido a la pérdida de alguien

# Audience and Purpose

## Audicence

## Purpose

### What story are you telling?

Exploration of the pain from grieving someone dear to us and the problem 
of the common reaction to pain, and the ideal we should strive for. Whether 
a friend, a spouse, a parent, or family in general.

Describe how excruciating losing someone feels, a pain so great that be look
for anything in our graps to stop it, even destroying even more of ourselves in
the process. 

Despite its size, such grief must be felt; it is a direct 
expression of the love we felt, a way to honor what was even if the object of
our love is no longer there, and how deeply this interaction with a loved one 
has changed us forever. 

If we are able to bear the pain of looking straight at the object of our love,
to recognize it as never to be the same again, we will be
be able to preserve this profound love that expresses itself in the most 
nagging pain, but changed. The sweetness of the past, along with the bitterness
of the present, sound, silence. Amid this bitterness the solace I've found is
the belief that this orphan love, which is now pain, deprived of direction,
lives within us, it pains, it is alive. We must never let it die, mucho menos
por nuestras propias manos, no importa cuán horrible sea.

This love, tender and warm, will be present; through subtle and unperceptible
changed in our character, the way we speak, the way we live, manners, taste,
emotions, our entire experience as human beings has been changed. That is the
way love persists inside of us. That kind of love does not go anywhere.Pain, on
the other hand, will subside. Perhaps not by tomorrow, or the day after. But it
will. 


### Why are you telling this story?

- If we want to love, we need to be prepared to grief. 
- Be conscious of this fact, make us appreciate more such love and time

I believe feeling grief is important, it marks us deeply the departure of
someone. Instead, we could go ignore that feeling. However, dismiss the feeling
is dismissing the joy that person and its effect brought us. In the same way we
accept the joy, we should absorb the pain.

- As my own way of grieving

- Someday I will grief again, so a exploration of the topic, and a proper way
	of process bereavement is necessary.

- Something is torn apart from us, it dies. However, I believes something will
	never leave us.

- State a particular way to process grief; open the arms to both; pain and
	pleasure

### Requirements

- The text must discuss grief in such a way that no one can tell which kind it
	refers to; friends, family, romantic. In a way, I'm talking about all of
	them and none.

### How are you going to tell the story?

Opening

I would like to set the scenery, present grief itself; it's root (perhaps 
defining the person in question; influence, characteristics, relevance, so on)
how it feels the grieving, why it hurt so much

Go on to talk about the specifics tactics of copying; like distraction,
blaming, and so on

## A take on grief
Despite the size of the wound, the grief must be felt. 

- Pain is the same size as our love is
- A way to honor 


## The glimmer of light;

- It might have been years, but it feels short-lived. 
- Whatever the amount of time, this dear person has a long lasting effect on
    us
    - Mannerism
    - Habits
    - Taste
    - Way of react, think, feel, and love itself
    -

- One piece of them will always be ours
- Memories might be forgotten through natural causes or prompted, objects might be destried, year might passed. But until the last day of our lives They will be alive. because that kind of love will not go anywhere

- That is the reason why I believe this suffering makes sense


Perhaps I could indulge in another paragraph once I finish the idea

Atenuation of the feeling; however we will still encounter objects that kindle
that flame again

Closing

### To whom is addressed this story?

to whoever has suffered the lost of someone dear in need of courage to bear the
pain, to honour the memory of the past.

To whoever wants to be ready for any grief in the future

## Opening

- A picture of grief
- Looking for ways to sooth ourselves
- pain as a reflection of love
- A profound change in ourselves

- If we wish to be alive, enjoying of all the world has to offer, we must be
    prepared to accept the 
- We feel pleasure in the same extent we feel pain.
- In the same way we feel a caress, we feel a blow. If we look for toughen the
    skin so that nothing can damage us, we may achieve it. Not without losing
    the ability to feel a caress i nthe process however.
- Grief is an experience we have to be prepared for is we 
- Understanding the nature of the what we are living and question assumptions
    is a brave task, not easy.

## Closing

- Excrutiating sensation 
- Pain being a reflection of our love
- The profound changed in ourselves
- Aspects where we may find solace
- This case where love turns to pain is not exclusive to grief
- Not to be dead in life
- 

# Blueprint

## Opening

## Presentation of Grief
"""A clear picture of grief"""
How could I picture grief?

- The pain produced by the absence our a person in our lives. 
- A certain something dies within us, being torn apart
- What is exactly that something? The relationship no longer exist. 
- What pains? The abscense, unique interactions, a laughter, all memmories
    together, 
- This person conforms part of ourselves
- No, not only what was, but what would never be again. 
- The things we could never share
- Above all, the greatest source of pain would be the formidable love with
    nowhere to go
- There is a certain atenuation of the colors in the world, red don't look as
    red anymore. I water the plants, but the colors keeps fading away.
- All of this emotions feel like a fierce and relentless fire that consume us
    from within, yet somewhat cold.

## Dealing with Grief
"""How we deal with pain, and what it might cause"""

- Don't let ourselves be fooled, whatever the expression, it is still pain that
	hunt us.
- Not everybody deals with pain the same way
- Such pain takes a different form depending on our particular nature and
	circumstance; blaming, anger, numbness, distraction, crying, guilt,
	sadness, ansiedad, lonliness, and the list goes on and on.
- In our struggle, we are trying to find a way to ease, to desperately find 
	answers, to make  it go away.
- External aids are important, but our answer must be found elsewhere.
- However, we avoid turn away our gaze from the place where the answer can be
	found, the very source of the complex emotions, within.
- The answer may lie within us, but how am I supposed to look inside when there
	is such much noise, foul creatures lurking about?
- In our search for erraditacting this nagging pain, we are destrying our
	ability to feel joy as well.

## What is this pain, if not love turnaround
"""Understanding the pain as the love we bear and the consecuences of erasing
it"""
- the need to recognize that this humongus sadness is equal than the joy we
    experience with this person.
- The pain find its roots at the memories and love we bear
- Considering the idea of eradicating the pain, and its implications.
- Would't it be like rejecting all the memories, meaning and respect for the
    person? 
- The refusal of taint those things in order to feel less pain 
- Even if we try, we have been changed por them, in many ways even if  we are
    not aware.
- Yes, part of us have died. Other ones lives. 
- We mourn the great loss of someone, despite this we still try to oblitarate
    even  further ourselves

## A glimmer of light

- Be able to accept their depkk

## The result of accepting this pain?

- The pain won't last forever; eventually it will decrease, and we will be able
    to keep the joy of the memory.
- I don't belive accepting the pain openly is safest way to process grief.
	However, I do believe is the one which will make us feel more alive, after
	all, we feel pleasure to the same extent we feel pain.
- Bury them won't make them dissappear, that kind of love does not go anywhere.
- Do not forget that we still have ourselves, and the changes love has brought
    about
- 

## Atenuation - Dying Embers
"""Over the time it subsides"""

- Part of ourselves refuses to process this lost, only to our tragedy. Bit by
    bit, the reality presents itself, and we have no choice to bitterly
    swallow it.
- After some time we resume our regular activities; days start being like they
    used to, and completely differents
- The grief passes from being the center of our emotions, to be in the
    background, present still
- The fire that once burned so fiercely, becomes dying embers. Waking up, or
    going to sleep
- We will find triggers, objects or situations which reminds us of them. For a
    a moment, the whole world stops. 

## Closing



# Construction

We have been granted the fortune of loving, and the tragedy of loss. The
the journey ahead and the answer we may find are unique, but the common place
where we all meet is in the necessity of exploring and grasping the nature and
conditions of our grief. An alarming prospect. But no more than the danger of
looking away? Despite all the caos and confusion, we find the correct answers through 
looking in. we know something died, but may ignore something is alive still. In
the great and long struggle for avoiding pain, we may be causing more and more.

## A fragment of grief

Anguish spurs from the absence of a beloved person in our lives. The departure
has brought the end of the cherished relationship, tearing apart something 
inside us. What exactly pains? The abscense of unique interactions, a smile, 
all the shared memories. No. Not only what was, but also what would never be,
and the directionless love, formidable yet without object. There is certain 
atenuation of the world. We water the flowers, but the colors keep fading away.
Black or white, the decision does not matter. We have a wildfire inside of us,
still we feel cold. We feel so much, and so little.

## Looking for salvation

For each nature and circumstance, there is a way of grieving. Pain might take
the shape of blame, guilt, tears, isolation, or even the inability to process 
what is happenning, or what we feel, or anything. We search for extinguising at 
whatever expense the suffocating flame. We venture to the world searching for 
answers, and answer we will find. Their effectiveness is questionable, 
nonetheless. If not out, the resolution must be in. However, how are we 
supposed to look inside when there is so much noise? What if in our search for
amputating our grief, we are severing part of ourselves?

## Two sides of the same coin

"Something died inside of me" is a common way to describe in a few words a 
world falling apart. However, how something dead could hurt so much? There is 
no doubt something with roots in our chest has been violently pulled. A part of
us might have withered, but other is alive, and grieving. Such thing is the love in 
our chest, palpable, even if deprived of direction, turned sour, in agony, the
one we have the intent to exile. Recognizing such relation is vital for making sense out
of grief. In this light, the decision of preserving this love with us, not to be
ever the same, but undergo a metamorphosis, or turn our backs on it.

## Alteration of who we are

Regarless of the will to protect the blaze or nor, this unique human being 
will have a long lasting effect on us, a permanent shift. We might encounter
instances of such changes in acquired mannerisms, habits, tastes, ways of 
reacting, perceiving the world, feeling, and loving. Memories might be 
forgotten through natural causes, or prompted, objects might be destroyed,
years may pass. But, until air stops coming in and out of our lungs, a piece of
them will remain  within us, along with a timeless scar. 

## The courage to feel

We might find solace in both aspects; experiencing this pain as a reflection of
the love that dear person inspired and appreciate the impact their existence
caused. Nevertheless, we must learn about certain aspect of this experience 
because it may not be the last. If we wish to love, the pain that follows must
be accepted. To the same extent we are able to feel joy, we feel sorrow. Our 
skin, tender and sensitive, is prone to bruises, burns, and cuts. Were we to 
toughen it, turn it stonelike, we would not have to worry about the flames, or
being hurt in any way. Not without losing the ability to feel a caress in the process. 


# Dissent

# Edit

We have been granted the fortune of love, and the tragedy of loss. The
the journey ahead and the answers we may find are unique, but the common place where we all meet is the necessity of exploring and grasping the nature and conditions of our grief. An alarming prospect. But no more than the danger of looking away? Despite all the chaos and confusion, we find the correct answers by looking in. We know something died, but may ignore something is alive still. In the exhausting struggle to avoid pain, we may be causing more and more.

## A fragment of grief

Anguish spurs from the absence of a beloved person in our lives. The departure has brought the end of the cherished relationship, tearing apart something inside us. What exactly pains? The absence of unique interactions, a smile,  all the shared memories. No. Not only what was, but also what would never be, and the directionless love, formidable yet without object. There is an attenuation of the world. We water the flowers, but the colors keep fading away. Black or white, the decision does not matter. We have a wildfire inside of us, and still, we feel cold. We feel so much and so little.

## Looking for salvation

For each nature and circumstance, there is a way of grieving. Pain might take the shape of blame, guilt, tears, isolation, or even the inability to process what is happening, what we feel, or anything. We search for extinguishing at whatever expense the suffocating flame. We venture into the world searching for answers, and answers we will find. Their effectiveness is questionable,  nonetheless. If not out, the resolution must be in. However, how are we supposed to look inside when there is so much noise? What if amputating our grief implies severing part of ourselves?

## Two sides of the same coin

"Something died inside of me" is a common way to describe in a few words a world falling apart. However, how could something dead hurt so much? There is no doubt something with roots in our chest has been yanked. Part of us might have withered, but the other is alive, and grieving. Such thing is the love in our chest, palpable, even if deprived of direction, turned sour, in agony, the one we have the intent to exile. Recognizing such a relation is vital for making sense of grief. In this light, a decision is in our hands: preserving this love to watch its metamorphosis, or turning our backs on it.

## Alteration of who we are

Regardless of the will to protect the blaze or not, this unique human being 
will have a long-lasting effect on us, a permanent shift. We might encounter such changes in acquired mannerisms, habits, tastes, ways of reacting, perceiving the world, feeling, and loving. Memories may be forgotten, through natural cause or prompted, objects may be destroyed, and years may pass. But, until air stops coming in and out of our lungs, a piece will remain within us, along with a timeless scar. 

## The courage to feel

We might find solace in experiencing this pain as a reflection of the love that dear person inspired and appreciating the impact their existence caused. Nevertheless, we must learn about certain aspects of this experience because it may not be the last. If we wish to love, the pain that follows must be accepted. To the same extent we can feel joy, we feel sorrow. Our skin, tender and sensitive, is prone to bruises, burns, and cuts. Were we to toughen it, turn it stonelike, we would not have to worry about the flame, or being hurt in any way. Not without losing the ability to feel a caress in the process.


# Discarted

- Processing grief is an unique, a personal journey that must be answer by
	ourselves. 

In our serach for eradicating the pang, we are destroying our ability to
feel joy as well.

our unique
process is found in the very place where there seems to be foul creatures
lurking about? Inside.

sense of all the mess, make it go away, find relief. Is the cure better than


External aid is important,
but our answer to this event must be found elsewhere. However, we turn our gaze
away from the place replies come, the very source of all the noise, within. How
are we supposed to look inside when there seems to be fouls creatures lurking 
about? 
















