---
lang: es/en
title: My Title
type: post
tags: [linux, cli]
---
# Draft of a draft

So, I was talking with Yeiling how relationships develop over time. However I
did not like her view on stuff. 

The idea the proposed was that love changes from fascination for a person, to
become bored of the same object. She argued it was still love, but a different
way. 

I believe one can hold the same fascination toward the same object for years,
even if the norm.

Even, I would say is a necessity to do so. Else, we would be looking always for
new things, abandoning the already known, argumenting they are boring. No, we
need to learn how to look at the same tree every day; I would be impossible to
recover that first impression of its height, shape, or surroundings, however
there is a different kind of fascination we can develop, look beyond, lose
ourselve in details. We would look at its leaves, how their color has turned a
different shade because of the season, the graceful dance that is perform when
falling, which is unique each time it happens, how its environment interacts
with it; people, dogs, birds, squirrels, how wonderful the range of color is
displayed under this particular day, or that one, or the other, the thought of
the years its roots have been developing, which may be more than our own time
on earth, which could lead to the thought of contemplating how flicke our
entire life is compared to the tree, the community it takes place, the country,
the planet, the universe. 

We are not discussing a tree, we a discussing a way of experiencing life. 

It is natural to lose ourselves in thought, in the hastle of daily routine, our
brain loves to skip details to be more efficient, not to waste attention. What
a blessing it is to be able to shush something and dedicate our undivided focus
to a task, writing this would be impossible if we could not. However, we need
to nurture not only this ability, but also the power to look at the same
people, situations, objects, and whatnot. As simple as looking. Sometimes we
don't even do that.

By looking, we will find more complexity, a richness of detail, or notice
nuances that were not there at first sight. There is a wonderful exercise using
paintings, from a book called XXX, where you would be encourage to look at it,
dedicate half an hour, to notice details. Then you would be ask about details,
like where was the woman in the background looking, or where does the wind in
the painting of whipwreck of medusa come from? All the ideas from the book at
far from be made justice on a post, but the relevant part is, we don't look. I
believe there is much more room to grow in this regard, which is aplicable in a
myriad situations; relationships, jobs, your own life, values, decisions.

Everything is deeper than it seems, and our attention and time are limited.
So  we must know where to invest it wisely

# Title

Everything is boring, we think wrongly


# Audience and Purpose

## Audicence



## Purpose

### What story are you telling?

The need to renew the fascination we have for everything 

### Why are you telling this story?

Otherwise, life would be dull, and we would have to embark on an endless quest
to find the next thing, never satisfied with anything.

### How are you going to tell the story?

I'd like to introduce some context of the topic; the idea of getting used to
certain things, say people, circumstances, achievements, or objects. That 
causes to give them for granted, to look for the next thing, for the sweetness
of it, for the new, for what we don't have. Then I would plan the question of 
how sustainable is living that way? Always looking for something else, but 
never stop to savor what is already at hand. Make it the best to emphatize with
the reader. Not preaching the abandonment of new experiences, but use it as a
complement in our lives.

Then to introduce its counterpart; find fastination in everything we lay our
eyes upon, a childish excitement for the whole new world in front of us,
rekindle the spark that once was there. To the smallest objects, to the gigant
blessing we can enjoy right now. We can't really access that first time, but we
can access so much more.

Delve into detail as a means to recover that fascination. Each day being
different, even if it looks the same, people changing constantly, even in
actions there would be much more detail and complexity. In general, complexity
as a means to enjoy anything. 

The settings for observation
The need for silence and calm for a observation. As it won't be as easily
accesible the details, nor we prepared to notice them. When the mind the bored
enough, it looks for something entertaining; if we look for the easy ready
available thing, we would be what could be a constructive, creative, and
wonderful experience. There is a certain willingness to be bored. We ourselves
have a part in this observation process, as being in a different mood could
drastically change how I view something. What a gift is the sound of rain when
I'm at home, how disgraceful when I'm on the street

However, there are things that could interest us so much. Then I introduce the
rambling about the tree

Take a look again at everything; not everything will excite everyone, perhaps
you would be more attracted toward visually compelling images, by the
complexity of sound, other may find ideas exceptionally amusing. Whatever it
is, there is so much room in which to grow when it comes to looking at things.
Live new things, and make the effort to notice the old ones.

I want you to look for an object, a person, or anything you don't pay attention
intently on a regular basis, or  even better a piece of art, such as the The 
Raft of the Medusa, and try to look for small changes, gestures,
relations, zoom in and out as you need, not let yourself be defeated by
boredom. 


# Blueprint


We all have been suprised at the sight of someone that has been out of our
lives for years, places we knew that were destroyed or renewed, or the grand
achievements we can admire in other people and ourselves. The constrast is 
clear, the what is obvious. On the other hand, the known becomes invisible to 
our eyes. "I already know the shape, the color, character, the impact" our mind
arguments to save some resources. How sustainble is only stopping to notice 
what is new, what is only recently acquired? How are we supposed to enjoy life,
if we don't trouble ourselves with fascinating ourselves with the common and 
regular experiences?

## The ability to be fascinated

- There is a stage in our lives when everything is unknown, eye-catching, the
	childish excitement.
- We would take anything in our hands, and make it our toy. Suddenly a clouds
	seem burgers, cardboard boxes castles
- Now we are more acquinted with the world, or so we believe, and fascination
	is harder to come by
- We can't regained the emotions from that first sight, nor the awe a place 
	inspired us.
- But that does not mean we can't be fascinated.
- The ability to look with fresh eyes, and be marvelled by anything is
	obtainaable, we can get it back.
- Regularly we would use observation, but we can also taste, hear and feel
- We may see, but more often than not we don't look.
- Sometimes it is as simple as that, just look.

- The world, and all that it contains, is not merely a husk.

## The settings for observation 

- The how we approach the task of recovering fascination is vital. 
- Boredom may be seen as a good condition
- The brain look for entertainment
- There are many accesible things to extinguish such ache, however it would
	only get us so far until we need more.
- Or we can accept being bored, and until we make out something constructive,
	creative and wonderful
- Attention ceases to be focus on ourselves to be directed to the object we
	want to admire.
- It will be easier to look at things if there is silence inside
- There has to be certain willingness to be bored
- Our stance has a great weight in this matter.
- What a gift is rain and the sound of its drops when I'm at home, and how 
	disgraceful when I'm out.

## Zoom in, and zoom out

- To start noticing details, looking is enough. Delve in those tiny marks a cup
	may have, the organization of plants, the composition of music, whatever
	cross your mind can deserve a closer look.
- All the things that surround us are complex
- Pause for a moment to think about how you would response to the question "Who
	are you?"
- In terms of what? of place, of relationships, your characters?
- In the same way, everything could have so much richness of detail, nuances
	that we hardly notice before looking away 
- The more we are aquainted we something or someone, the more we can see
	through.
- This is person may be annoying, or smart, but behind that first impresion is
	a whole human being with story, decisions, 
- How things object relates to the world, how its existence can be possible?
- So we can lose ourselves in a train of what, hows and whys
- The cherry on the cake is everything changes, so the answers we find may as
	well.
- Just open your eyes and look

## A tree

However, there are things that could interest us so much. Then I introduce the
rambling about the tree

## Find something to admire

I want you to look for an object, a person, a piece of art such as the Raft of
the Medusa, or anything you would like to look at, and admire the details you
can; gestures, relations, meaning, some composition. As you avoid being
deceived by boredom, you will find there is so much life and detail. Take a 
look again at everything, develop the ability to find fascinate yourselve with
anything.

## 

# Construction

We all have been suprised at the sight of someone that has been out of our
lives for years, places we knew that were destroyed or renewed, or the grand
achievements we can admire in other people and ourselves. The constrast is 
clear, the what is obvious. On the other hand, the known becomes invisible to 
our eyes. "I already know the shape, the color, character, the impact" our mind
arguments to save some resources. How sustainble is only stopping to notice 
what is new, only what is recently acquired or achieved? How joyful our lives
can be if the moments we deem worth savoring are few and far between? How blind
can we be to something that is in front of us.

## The ability to be fascinated

There once was a stage in our lives when everything was unfamiliar and
eye-catching. We would take anything into our hands, and devise a toy out of
it; Clouds would come to life in a myriad shapes, and a stick would represent a
sword, a shovel, or a stick. As we go out into the world, we live, laugh, and 
cry. That first sight, or the awe a place inspires can't be regained. However 
that does not mean we are doomed to live with a dull vision of the world; we 
can cultivate the ability to be fasctinated, be marvelled by anything, to look
with fresh eyes again. The same world is out there, our eyes are the ones that 
need adjustment. We just need to be open to observe, and observe.

## The internal settings for observation

Our inner landscape plays a paramount role on how the entire world unfolds
in front of us. Even if possible, rain may not be a peaceful 
symphony for someone who is under the drops. To find fascination, we need 
silence and willingness to be bored. The former means the abscense of noise; we 
are obsorbed by the object, we do not put ourselves in the middle of the 
experience, it is pure, pristine. And then we get bored. The resistance to the
urge to extinguish this ache by cheap means becomes our next challenge. If we 
succeed, something curious happens: ideas start appearing, we draw relations 
between objects, details that seemingly were not there before show up. In other
words, we find a way to make it fun and entertaining. Boredom is the perfect
partner for creativity.

## Zoom in, zoom out

What we observe is nothing and everything. To begin, looking is enough. The
tiny marks in a cup, the constrast between withered leaves and the ones full
of life, whatever you want to take a closer look. The same object would inspire
different ideas and experiences for each individual: associate it with memories,
other objects or ideas. We may find joy in complexity as well. A person may be
annoying, or smart, but behind that first impression there is a human being as
complex as us. An object may be a source of beauty, inspiration, awe in the
relationship with the world. We can lose ourselves in a train of whats, hows,
and whys. The cherry on the cake is that everything changes, and so will what 
we observe.

# Looking at a tree

Some objects may seem uninteresting, we think unconceivable that something so
familiar, like a tree, could cause amusement, let alone impact in
ourselves. However, look at the leaves, how the color has turned a different
shade because of the season, the graceful dance these perform when falling, which is
unique every time the wind plays the music, how particular the interaction with 
dogs, humans, birds, and squirrels, how wonderful the range of color is displayed
under this particular light, different than yesterday's, how old the trunk and
the roots may be, which could be more time than our own on earth, the tree
could be even here long after we do, how fickle our entire life is compared to a
tree, the community in which takes place, the country, the planet, the universe.

We are not discussing a tree.

## Find something to admire

I want you to look for an object, a person, a piece of art such as the Raft of
the Medusa, or anything that suits your taste, and observe the details and what
resonates with you; gestures, meaning, composition, ideas. Then, little by
little we get used to observing objects more intently, to cultivate the stillness
required to do so, life in general is brighter and full of life. We can enjoy
both: the big achievements and small steps. You may find there is much
detail that goes unnoticed, how much we usually miss out.

# Dissent

- There are situations which simply can only hold our attention for so long.
+ Introduced the paragraph of the tree

- Are you suggesting we should abandon the pursuit of  anything new?
+ No, rather I propose we look at it as a complement, rather than the only
	source of excitement and passion

# Edit




















