---
lang: es/en
title: My Title
type: post
tags: [linux, cli]
---
# Draft of a draft




# Title

# Audience and Purpose

## Audicence

## Purpose

### What story are you telling?

A story about our limited time

### Why are you telling this story?

We would believe we have too much time, or that we can do everything. The
reality is that we don't. At many levels, we are better off facing that fact.
We face the fact of our limitations, or the consequences of our arrogance.

### How are you going to tell the story?

I'd like to present the problematic first; We would put a lot of tasks on a
day and be frustrated we could have time to accomplish it all, on the other
side of the spectrum someone would not do anything significant for them, both
situations point to a dangerous assesstment of time. The first one experiences
frustration at not being able to accomplishing all the work he would desire, or
burn themselves out, time is looked barely enough. The other looks at time as
if it was plenty; tasks can be delayed, nothing needs to be rushed.

Then I would try to talk to the different personalities. 

To the person who wants to work as much as he can every day. You can't rush a
cake, you are going to burn it.

To the person who do not considers the value of their own time.

Then we could learn from each other. Effort and dedication are important, they
are one of the most beautiful resources someone could have. On the other hand,
we could burn ourselves out. We need time off, we need time to do nothing.

Finally reflect on the shortness of time itself. Shortness of life has to be
embraced.

Basically I'm trying to present two approaches, both flaweds and somewhat right
in their own way. However there must be a better way to pursuit, learning from
both sides.


# Blueprint

## What are we doing we time

- The desire for more time is a timeless thought
- More time to finish something, to read, to enjoy a videogame, to cook, to do
    anything we could not fit into our schedule
- There are two ends to this spectrum. 
- We try as hard as we can to accomplish everything, we want to control all 
    the varibles possible, try to rush things
- Or we slack, and believe in the future we would have time. The future came,
    and we don't have it.
- The perception of time becomes the problem, because we don't really know how
    much time we have available
- What is at risk is the misuse of a resource which we can't get back.

## Overcommiter

- Desire to do too much
- To control too much
- To be effective
- Such character would be frustated at the inevitable in front of the fact that
	a day has a fixed amount of hours. We could try to stretch them by ignoring
	the need of sleep, or eating, or any other kind of activity taking up
	time
- frustrated at the fact that there are things that can be rushed
- There is a relentless drive for going foward
- But where does all this speed take us? What are we rushing but our own time?
- We wish we could have more, but are we enjoying the time we already have?
- With all this work what is he trying to accomplish?
- You can't rush a cake, you are going to burn it

## Undercommiter

- There is no reason why he should bother
- There are lots of commodity available, couch is warm, and the constant video
	feed makes my brain happy. 
- Like a switch off your brain.
- He can do the bare minimum to not be bother; attend academic
	responsabilities, do the daily hours of work, pay attention here and
	there.
- He seems to be in a constant loop of working just barely enough to be able to
	switch off his brain, and from time to time make some effort to obtain a
	newer way to make the hole he's digging deeper. 
- If you are in a hole already, stop digging. 
- However, to what extent can he be blamed? There are a myriad of internal and
	external factors affecting this individual.
- What is he putting off? What is he avoiding? Is he even concious of the
	forces that influenced him? 
- Like a hole in a big tank, he tries to stop the leakage using paper. Before
	the paper ceases, one more sheet has to be in place, and then one more, and
	another after that. But what is being wasted is not water, but time.
	

## The interception

- This seemingly opposites converge into one mistake; a wrong perception of
	time

- One grip is too tight
	- He has admirable traits, like the tenacity to overcome obstacles, to push
		forward.
	- But that fast pace could make enjoying life harder; we would ommit simple
		things, or would ignore situations which would otherwise enrich our
		experience
	- There are processes which cannot be hurried, nor aspects and situations
		that escape our control
	- Even if life is treated as a scarse resource, which is not far from the
		truth, we should ask ourselves whether we are enjoying it, or simply
		working hard because that is what we have been doing for a long time. 

- One grip is too loose
	- There is the implicit belief that we could do something later, however we
		can't be sure of that. 
	- Time is regarded as abundand, or not regarded at all. So as not having a
		stablished valued, we would spend the resource without any
		consideration
	- The great problem is not doing something worthwhile. The same activity,
		like watching a movie, could be both worth and not worth doing. Each of
		us have to decide that; does this have significance for me, or am I
		just killing time? 

## Consider time as a limited resource

- Time, as a sane mind, can't be bought.
- As it so happens with many things in life, we fail to realise the value of
    something until it is no longer in our grasp. 
- Should we then wait for wrinkles and gray hair to appear before we become
    aware of the passing of time?
- However, old age is a symtom of time lived, not time left. 
- Life is unexpected, beautiful yet fragile.
- So we are left with the doubt of how much there is.
- We could make plans, and arrangements, but, as we've discussed, it does not
    go our way most of the time. 
- Under this light we should ask ourselves, how are we using this time of
    ours, not knowing how much is left in the tank? Is this really how we would
    like to spend it? 

## Closing

- This is a call for considering the value of time, and observing your use
    regarding it
- The reality of our alloted time is harsh, not particularly easy to swallow.
- However, it is better than the presumption that we do anything anytime, and
    its consequences.
- This notion is around us; we some day see bright floweres blooming where none
	was before, we watch them grow and extent its petals toward the light, then
	one day we discover the signs of decay, until they inevitably fall. More
	floweres would come in time, more floweres would complete their cycle.
- It can be the moment of sudden panic at our mortality, and we may flight the
    idea, forget about the discussion. 
- Or it can be the moment life takes a different turn for the good; We try to
    be here as much as we can, execute each task consciously, fully, perhaps
    not at once but each day we become more comfortable with the idea of our
    humanity. We try to savor each moment to the fullest.
- We change the activities we do, the things we dedicate our attention to, the
    quality of what we do changes.
- For now, considering time and what we do is the beginning

# Construction

# What are we doing with our time 

Everyone has felt the longing for more time. To finish reading, to cook, play,
or anything we could not fit into our schedule. There are the two ends to this
spectrum. On the one hand we have the kind of person who slacks; "there would be
plenty of time in the future" is said, then the future comes, and we don't have any. On
the other hand, someone tries as hard as he can to pack into a single hour a
lot, tries to control every variable possible, he may be said to use as much
time as he could, but how much of it is enjoyed? The perception of time
becomes the problem because we don't really know how much is left available, or
the act of trying to squeeze every last second defeats its own purpose. What 
is at risk is the misuse of a resource which we can't get back.

# The Slacker Archetype

There are plenty of comforts available; a warm couch, an endless feed of
images and videos exactly tailored to ourselves, an vast source of information
about anything and everything, the internet, so any question or curiosity can
be extinguised almost inmdiately. Then we have the thing we need to get done;
there is in it something of value for us, but it requires effort. If we consider
time as abundant, we could do the effort later, right? So we choose comfort. We
keep choosing comfort until we realise there is no time left. The
opportunity perhaps is still within reach, or forever lost. The problem is
an un realistic perception of how much time we have.

# The Workaholic Archetype

Such character's focus is on what is next, living in a future that has to
come but it's not present yet. We hope for the most convenient scenario so
that our tasks are not impeded; absence of traffic, no rain, no noise,
concentration must be at their peak. It is dark outside, but the to-do list is
far from over. It follows a feeling of not meeting a certain quota. However, the
problem is an unrealistic perception of how much can be accomplish within a
time frame. Inevitably, if we rush a cake it will be charred. Rejecting the
idea of such limitation prevent us from preparing for the conditions we have to
work with. We will have to prioritize some tasks, discard others. 

## The Interception

One approach is too loose, the other is too tight. These seeming opposites
converge into one mistake; a wrong perception of time. The first believes time
will never run out, or does not think about time at all, so actions does not
have any weight. The other, while having admirable traits like tenacity or
discipline, is prone to burn out. Time is regarded as scarce, but what if in
the process to make the most of our time, we set ourselves a pace we can't
sustain? how much our ability to enjoy life is affected? 
Comfort and effort are no evils. Awareness of what our actions cause is what 
must catch our attention. In both ends of the spectrum we will find consequences
if taken to the extremes.

## Consider time as a limited resource

Time, like a sane mind, is invaluable. As so it happens with many things in
life, we fail to realise the value of something until it is no longer in our
graps. Should we then wait for wrinkles and gray hair to appear before we
become aware of the passing of time? Old age is a symptom of time lived, not
time left. Life is unexpected, beautiful yet fragile. There is no certain way
to assesst time, so we are left with the doubt of how much there is. We could
make plans and arrangements, but, usually it does not go our way. Under such 
light we should ask ourselves, how are we using this time of ours? Is this 
really how we would like to spend it?

## Closing

This is a call for considering the value, and observing your own use of time.
The reality of our alloted time is harsh only because we decide to elude that
fact, but it does not make it less natural. Such notion is around; we
see bright flowers blooming where none where before, we watch them grow and
extent their petals toward the light, then one day we discover signs of decay,
the intense golden color becomes brownish, petals fall, and now there is none where
there was something before. It can be the moment of panic at such idea, and
we may flight and forget about the discussion. Or it can be the moment
when we try to savor each second to the fullest, perhaps not at once but each
day become more comfortable with the idea of our humanity.

# Dissent

# Edit

# Not used 

The grip is too tight. Such character has a relentless drive to go forward, do
too much, control too much, be effective. We might encounter the frustation at
the amount of hours in a day, we try to stretch them by any means we consider 
prudent.  We may find admirable traits, like tenacity to overcome obstacles.
However, the problem is how the strain would affect ourselves and ability to 
enjoy. There will be always situations that escape our control, we would 
easily dismiss opportunities to enrich our experience. Rejecting such reality
make us miss the opportunity to plan for them. Even if time is treated 
as a scarse resource, we should ask ourselves whether we are enjoying what we 
are doing, or simply working hard because that is what we have been doing for 
a long time.



the strain we are inflicting in ourselves, the colateral damage in
our ability to enjoy, and 

















