# Draft of a draft



# Title

How you can improve whatever you do

- Imitate the inmersion of a gymnast

- Imitate the passion of a gimnast

- Make any activity an immersive experience 


# Audience and Purpose

## Audicence

For people who wants to improve the quality of the activities they already do,
or want to to.

## Purpose

Understanding of the key features of this kind of activities to improve the
quality of our own

### What story are you telling?

An exploration on the kind of activities that dissolves momentarily the self
to execute an action the best as we can

### Why are you telling this story?

In understading the existence of this kind of activities, we might be able to
replicate them on others not developed until that point

### How are you going to tell the story?

All explorations start with the what; define how can be identify that kind of
activity, like in gymnactis, playing music, attending a business (Even if is
not that artistic nor poetic. You don't think in terms of what you like, but
what the clientele would)

Key features of this activities; they require the abscense of the self; there
is no gymnastic and a jump, not a musician and a play, the subject and the
action merge, it is subtle, fragile. 

Mention that it is not all magical; there are long hours of frustation in these
activities in the inherent struggle involed. The moments of struggle enhance
the sensation of satisfaction.


Closing: identify key aspects of these activities, and apply them to one you
are interested in. 

# Blueprint

- There are people who are able to create tiny worlds of their own
- Such people seem so inmerse
- What if we could do the same with more mundane activities, or turn what
    is already a joy even better.
- Who has not wish for more concentration
- Throught the understanding of what these absorbing acitivites have in common,
    we can tune our own to enhance their quality.


## Absorbing Activity

- Easy to imagine a athlete or a musician absorbed in his task
- However many activities can work under the same principle, even if with more
    difficulty
- Business owner, or an engineer;  even if these involved skills that are not
    artistics.
- Both examples have a display of expertise, control over their particular
    world with rules. 
- Whereas the world has a many fields, rules, exceptions and what not, this
    activitiy provides the opportunity to make the playfield smaller, with
    clear rules, an unique dimension for us to tackle challenges at our own
    rhythm.
- These boundaries make it more manageable, easy to achieve mastery and simple
    to lose oneself in the task
- For the sake of simplicity, we well stick to the example of an gymnast

## What changes externally

- There is no noise or distractions, and we have clear objetives, feedback, 
    rules
- There is no notification buzzing, the environment is quiet, so our attention
    is not outside the activity, even if the activity itself involves
    multitasking.
- The what and how we can get it is clear; if the gymnast wants to land a jump,
    she needs to practice
- The feecback tells us what we did right and wrong, again is self evident
- There are a set of rules on how to do it, and what not to do


## What changes internally

- There is no noise nor distractions, time seems to go faster, and the
    difficulty is adaptable
- Worries, thoughts, doubts, and everything else vanishes. What I mean when I
    said on the post of "'Everything is wrong', we think wrongly".
- There is no gymnast and a jump, but those two merge gracefully.
- We lose our sense of time, it goes along with that self-awareness
- The gymnast would perform certain acrobatics according to her level; for some
    hand standing would be easy, but for the common lot it won't. 
- So she adapts her routine accordingly; Not big enough to be scary and
    intimidating, not small enough to be dull and boring. Just enough to
    impose a challenge on our gymnast, to stretch her abilities
- This implies the need to be in constant watch on this balance

## Not everything is magical

- Until now these absorbing activities are fantastic; the world they provide is
    unique for each of us, and the sensation of its execution is sublime. 
- However, it's important to note they are not always involved pleasant
    experiences.
- Our gymnast will have to go through the inherent hardships of their art, the
    frustation at not accomplishing a posture, some accidental injury, 
    comparison with peers focusing on less exciting aspecs such as nutrition, 
    or resting. 
- But when we become aware of this, instead of being a hindrance, a liberating
    feeling takes place
- Feeling bad is not an indicator of something wrong with us, or the activity,
    but a natural state. There will be ups and downs. Some may even have the
    fortune to enjoy the hardships
- Our gymnast may recognize a fall like a priceless opportunity for growth.

## Convert what you do in a absorbing activity

- Take your particular activity, even if not artistic, and try to recognize
    the inherent traits of an absorbing activity.
- Do you have clear what and how?
- Do you understand the rules of the game you are playing?
- Are you learning from the feedback the world is giving you?
- Are you free of noise? the internal swarm of thoughts in your head and the myriad
    actors that tear apart from every angle your attention?
- Can you tell when something is too hard, or easy, and adjust the difficulty?
- Focus on just one at the time, the turn whatever activity in something that
    you can enjoy more


# Construction

Picture the image of an athlete or a musician, how these may be absorbed in
their respective activities; the rest of the world seems to pale in front of
what they are doing, for them there is nothing else, how gracious and perfect
the performance is. What if we could replicate such experience with more mundane, or less
artistics activities? Whereas the world have many fields, rules, exceptions,
and whatnot, we create in our particular activity a dimension of our own; the 
playfield is smaller, there are clear rules and boundaries that make it more 
manageable, the sensation of mastery is closer, and we can lose ourselves more
easily. Through the understanding of what absorbing activities
have in common, we can enhance the quality of our own.

## External conditions

The absorbing activity is characterized by a lack of distractions, and clear
objectives, rules, and feedback. The absence of buzzing notifications and a
quiet environment allows our attention to be solely directed to the action,
thus avoiding the gigant toll that switching tasks has on us. On the other 
hand, in such activities we have a concrete idea of what we
desire to accomplish, how to do it, and receive direct indicators of whether
it has been done correctly. A gymnast has the objective of doing certain
acrobatics, through a coach or by self-learning, she knows the theory of how it
should be done, finally she receives inmediate feedback of her practice when
she falls or succeeds in her landing.

## Internal conditions

There are also changes in ourselves with kind of activities; There is no
internal noise, time seems to go faster, and the difficulty is set perfectly to
our skill. The kind of noise is different than the external; worries,
thoughts, doubts, everything vanishes. It is exactly what I mean when in
"'Everything is boring', we think wrongly", we get out of our own way. We would
not find "the gymnast" and "a leap" separated, they merge into one gracefully. In the
same way, time seems to dissapear as well; hours of training and sore muscles
seem like nothing. Finally, our gymnast would perform certain acrobatics 
according to her level. She adapts her routine so that it is not big enough to
be intimidating, nor small enough to be boring, just enough to stretch her
abilities. This implies the need to be in constant look for balance.

## Not everything will feel magical

Until now, these absorbing activities are fantastic; the world they provide is
unique for each of us, and the sensation of the execution is sublime. However,
it is important to note that negative experiences are also part of them. Our
gymnast will have to go through the inherent hardships of her art; the
frustration of not accomplishing a posture, some accidental injury, or having 
to focus on less exciting aspecs such as nutrition or
resting. But when we become aware of this, instead of being a hindrance, we
find relief. Hardships are not necessarily an indicator of something wrong with
us, or the activity, but part of the process. There will be ups and downs. Some may
have the fortune to enjoy obstacles. Our gymnast may recognize a fall like a
priceless opportunity for growth.

## Convert what you do in an absorbing activity

Take your particular action, even if it is not artistic, try to recognize
the inherent characteristics of an absorbing activity, and imitate them. Do you
have a clear what and how? Do you understand the rules of the game you are
playing? Are you learning from the feedback the world is giving you? Are you
free of noise? The internal swarm of thoughts in your head as much as the myriad
forces that tear apart from every angle your attention? Can you tell when
something is too hard, or easy, and adjust the difficulty? Focus on just one at
a time. In this way, we can take the activity at hand and make it more
enjoyable and effective.


# Dissent

# Edit

Picture the image of an athlete or a musician, how these may be absorbed in their respective activities; the rest of the world seems to pale in front of what they are doing, for them, there is nothing else; how gracious and perfect the performance is. What if we could replicate such an experience with more mundane, or less artistic activities? Whereas the world has many fields, rules, exceptions, and whatnot, we create in our particular activity a dimension of our own; the playfield is smaller, some clear rules and boundaries make it more manageable, the sensation of mastery is closer, and we can lose ourselves more easily. By understanding what absorbing activities have in common, we can enhance the quality of our own.

## External conditions

The absorbing activity is characterized by a lack of distractions, and clear objectives, rules, and feedback. The absence of buzzing notifications and a quiet environment allows our attention to be solely directed to the action, thus avoiding the giant toll that switching tasks has on us. On the other hand, in such activities, we have a concrete idea of what we desire to accomplish, how to do it, and receive direct indicators of whether it has been done correctly. A gymnast has the objective of doing acrobatics, through a coach or self-learning, she knows the theory of how it should be done, and finally, she receives immediate feedback on her practice when she falls or succeeds in her landing.

## Internal conditions

There are also changes in ourselves with kind of activities; There is no internal noise, time seems to go faster, and the difficulty is set perfectly to our skill. The kind of noise is different than the external; worries,  thoughts, doubts, everything vanishes. It is exactly what I mean when in "'Everything is boring', we think wrongly", we get out of our way. We would not find "the gymnast" and "a leap" separated, they merge gracefully into one. In the same way, time seems to disappear as well; hours of training and sore muscles seem like nothing. Finally, our gymnast would perform acrobatics according to her level. She adapts her routine so that it is not big enough to be daunting, nor small enough to be boring, just enough to represent a challenge. This implies the need to be constantly looking for balance.

## Not everything will feel magical

Until now, these absorbing activities are fantastic; the world they provide is unique for each of us, and the sensation of execution is sublime. However, it is important to note that negative experiences are also part of them. Our gymnast will have to go through the inherent hardships of her art; the frustration of not accomplishing a posture, some accidental injury, or having to focus on less exciting aspects such as nutrition or resting. But when we become aware of this, instead of being a hindrance, we find relief. Hardships are not necessarily an indicator of something wrong with us or the activity, but part of the process. There will be ups and downs. Some may have the fortune to enjoy obstacles. Our gymnast may recognize a fall as a priceless opportunity for growth.

## Convert what you do in an absorbing activity

Take your particular action, even if it is not artistic, try to recognize the inherent characteristics of an absorbing activity, and imitate them. Do you have a clear what and how? Do you understand the rules of the game you are playing? Are you learning from the feedback the world is giving you? Are you free of noise? The internal swarm of thoughts in your head as much as the myriad forces that tear apart from every angle your attention? Can you tell when something is too hard, or easy, and adjust the difficulty? Focus on just one at a time. In this way, we can take the activity at hand and make it more enjoyable and effective.










































