# Draft of a draft


# Title

# Audience and Purpose

## Audicence

For those who, despite doing all their efforts, feel like they are not yet
in a self-stablished goal which is unfair.

## Purpose

### What story are you telling?

A story about giving the most of ourselves

### Why are you telling this story?

Giving the most of ourselves is not always what we want to do, or we will have
the energy to do it, but we must do it. Those feelings are temporal, what we
are building will last longer. We might hurt ourselves, like someone lifting a 
barbell without knowing how to do it. There are moments to be soft, to
understand ourselves and how we feel, other when we need to keep pushing.

### How are you going to tell the story?


I should talk about notion first, so that people then want to know the real one
you know, or the one I'm suggesting.

Then talk about a toxic notion of 'effort', where you have to push yourself to
do a certain amount of reps, or study 80 hour a day, and if you don't, just not
doing it good enough. I could see the appeal of always expanding our horizons,
to have high standards. However, I don't believe giving the most of ourselves
is about doing X amount of reps, or achieving things. Goals must be tailored to
individuals

The old man at the park working out daily; he uses jeans, a t-shirt, and
everyday shoes. He does basic exercises, like push ups and dips. He does not
concerns himself with keeping up with the pace of that one or this one. His
focus is on being constant, to push *his* own limits further each day. There is
the clue to what it means to give the best of ourselves, knowing our own
limits, and try to push ourselves everyday.

Limits are not static. We can develop our ability to increase them, but the key
is knowing where the line is drawed, so tomorrow I will be able to know I can
still give more, I reach the line, or a passed it. That is the mistake of
trying to reach other people line's. We can see their lines to learn from them,
but focus on our own progress

There is a conscious effort and documentation of our progress in order to feel
proud and keep expanding our achievements

I'd like to stablish what giving the most of ourselves means. It is doing
something with all your being, pouring yourself into a task, like ceasing to
exist an "I", or a task, you merge, like the metaphor of the athlete (insert
link wink wink). It's giving that extra mile to surpass our own mark. Some days
were are not going to go over it, but we reach it. Some days we will not reach
it, but get at least close. Some days we will not get close, but at least we
make the effort to try. 

There are factors that we do not control; Genetics, circumstances, materials,
and whatnot. But one thing that we do control is trying. Giving all we've got.
Sometimes it's not going to be our 100%, sometimes it will be 5%, but we will
give it all.



# Blueprint

## Opening

- giving the most of ourselves is not always what we want to do, or we will
    always have the energy to do it.
- Working toward something we would like could be a blessing, or horrific
    depending on how we look at it
- There is an extreme idea of pushing ourselves till exhaustion; how are we
    supposed to finish a book a month where we can't read a page a day? The
    reality is that, if we don't look at these for what they really are, a
    vision, or a future goal, rather than an immidiate must, we will hurt
    ourselves.
- That is not what giving the most of ourselves is about
- If we don't understand that, if we don't stop pushing mindlessly we are going
    to get where we want, even worse not getting the gratification of the
    acvitiy we are doing
- 

## A Toxic Notion of Effort

- There is a toxic notion of 'effort'
- You have to do eighty push ups, study for eight hours, work for 14 hours
- If we look at the path in the mountain, vast and steep, we can't only count
    of motivation, many of us will feel discouraged.
- The appeal of expanding horizons, having a vision, high standards,
- We don't desist from the climb, but focus on the first refuge, then the
    next, and the next. We focus not on the harsh path before us, but on the 
    next stop, on the way, on the top.
- Giving the most of ourselves is not about achieving certain amount of reps,
    or stick to a book nonstop for hours, objetives must be tailored to 
    individuals

## A old man

- There is an elder who often goes to the outdoor gym
- Some description of the guy in question
- Some of what he does
- The form of the push ups is not perfect, there is struggle
- I see he is doing something which is a great deal of the job, showing up to
    do his part
- He does not concerns himself with keeping up with the others
- HIs focus is on being constant, push his own limits further each day
- There is a clue as to what it mens to give the besst of ourselves, knowing
    our own limits, and try to push them.

## Limits are not static

- Wrong conception of limits, they don't define you. They server as a way of
    measuring of progress. If we can only do 10 push ups, we try to 11, only
    concentrate for 5 minuts, we try to stay focus 10. That is what limits are
    for
- Limits are not static
- We could read for an hour, great.
- Once we know where the lines is drawn, we will be able to set the goal to
    surpass it tomorrow.
- We can see other people's lines to find lessons or inspiration, but we need
    to focus on our own.
- The limit may be set wrongly on our own mind
- That is the importance of knowing ourself; we might be able to do so much
    more, but believe otherwise. 
- The only way to find out is to try, see if we need more or less weight.
- Implies a conscious effort and documentation of our progress in order to feel
    proud and keep expanding our achievements

## Giving the most of ourselves

- It is doing something with all your being, puring yourself into the task,
    like the the atlethe I described in "Make any activity an immersive 
    experience" (https://laotze.net/1048), momentarily we cease to exist, we
    merge with the task
- It means that extra effort, the acceptance of the unconfortable so we could
    gain something greater.
- However, there would be a day when we can't give all, when we have just a few
    hours, or even minutes to the task, or not enough mental strength. 
- Despite of this, we keep giving whatever we got; we give those minutes, and
    whatever concentration we've got. 
- Some day we will not surpass the line, so we aim to the line. Other days we
    will not be able to reach the line, but get up and try to is worth more
    than giving up.

## Closing

There are factors we do not control; genetics, circumstances, materials, and
whatnot. But giving the most of ourselves is one of the things we have control
over. Such a thing will involved self-knowledge; we need to decide whether to
push ourselves further, or be kinder, have a tigher or looser grip, recognize
our true limits, and expand them. 

# Construction

Giving the best of ourselves is not always what we want to do. There is a distorted idea of effort which propels us to push ourselves to unreasonable extents. How are we supposed to finish a book a month when we can't read a page a day? The reality is if we don't look at such landmarks for what they are, a vision or a goal rather than an immediate action or a metric to judge ourselves, we won't be able to celebrate the tiny everyday victories or we will feel discoraged at being so far in comparison. We need to understand giving the best of ourselves is not about other people and stop pushing ourselves mindlessly. What is at risk is not getting where we want to be, or even worse, we won't be enjoying the path along the way.

## A toxic notion on effort

We have to do eighty push ups right after waking up, study for eight hours straight, then work for 14 hours. Oh, don't forget the workout. If we can't meet such criteria, we must be doing something wrong or not desiring enough the goals we set for ourselves. The issue with this particular line of thinking is not exageration of the example, nor our capacity to accomplish such feats, but ignoring that development works by small progressive improvements. Achievements or goals could be used as an inspiration, lessons, or marks that we will surpass one day. The appeal of expanding our horizons or having high standards is undeniable. However, giving the best of ourselves goes beyond doing a certain amount of reps, or sticking to a book for hours. 

## An admirable example

There is man who goes to the outdoor gym often. He looks his years; gray hair, quite slim, always using t-shirt, jeans, and shoes not meant to workout. What stands out is not the tecnique for his push ups, nor the amount of reps, indeed we can observe his obvious struggle against gravity, but he is doing his part. It would make no sense for him to compare himself against his peers in terms of resistance or strength. His focus is on being constant, push his own limits further each day. He measures himself against his past self. In him we can find a clue as to what it means to give the best of ourselves; knowing our own limits and try to expand them.

## Our dynamic limitations

A limit is the maximum amount of something; the amount of time we can spend reading, reps of some exercise, of information we can process in a given time. However, limits are not static. They can be expanded or contrated, depending on whether we push them. Limits represent imaginary lines that could serve as a indicator of our progress. If we can do only 10 push ups, we aim for 11. If we can concentrate on a text only for 5 minutes, we aim for 10. In such a fashion, we will stretch this mental line. Limits may be set wrongly in our mind however. We are capable of much more than we believe. There lies the importance of knowing ourselves. The only way to discover where our true limitations are is by experimentation. We need to check if we need more or less weight. 

## The actual definition

Such an effort is trying to go over that line every time, notice that little progress and try to surpass it next day. But giving the best of ourselves means more than that. Some day we will not exceed the line, so our objective should be the line. Some days we will not reach the line, so our objetive should be going as close as we can to that mark. Some days we won't have time, nor mental strength,  despite of this we keep giving all we have, as little as it may be. As  described in "Make any activity an immersive activity", we need to pour  ourselves into the task.

## We need to give the best of ourselves

There are factors we do not control; genetics, circusmtances, materials and whatnot. But giving the best of ourselves is one of the things we have control over. That is what the man at the outdoor gym inspires; it doesn't matter our  current level on anything, if we do the best we can each time, and try to surpass our current limitations, we are bound to thrive. However, such a thing  does not happen by itself. We will need self-knowledge to tell when to push  ourselves further, or when to be kind, have a tigher or a looser grip,  recognize our true limits and expand them. The process implies a conscious  effort and documentation of our journey. 

# Dissent

# Edit

Giving the best of ourselves is not always what we want to do. There is a distorted idea of effort that propels us to push ourselves to unreasonable extents. How can we finish a book monthly when we can't read a page daily? The reality is if we don't look at such landmarks for what they are, a vision or a goal rather than an immediate action or a metric to judge ourselves, we won't be able to celebrate the tiny everyday victories or we will feel discouraged at being so far in comparison. We need to understand giving the best of ourselves is not about other people and stop pushing ourselves mindlessly. What is at risk is not getting where we want to be, or even worse, we won't be enjoying the path along the way.

## A toxic notion of effort

We have to do eighty push-ups right after waking up, study for eight hours straight, then work for 14 hours. Oh, don't forget the workout. If we can't meet such criteria, we must be doing something wrong. The issue with this particular line of thinking is not the exaggeration of the example, nor our capacity to accomplish such feats, but ignoring that development works by small progressive improvements. Achievements or goals could be used as inspiration, lessons, or marks that we will surpass one day. The appeal of expanding our horizons or having high standards is undeniable. However, giving the best of ourselves goes beyond doing a certain amount of reps, or sticking to a book for hours. 

## An admirable example

There is a man who goes to the outdoor gym often. He looks his years; gray hair, quite slim, always wearing a t-shirt, jeans, and shoes not meant to workout. What stands out is not the technique for his push-ups, nor the amount of reps, indeed we can observe his obvious struggle against gravity, but he is doing his part. It would make no sense for him to compare himself against his peers in terms of resistance or strength. His focus is on being constant and pushing his limits further each day. He measures himself against his past self. In him we can find a clue as to what it means to give the best of ourselves; knowing our limits and trying to expand them.

## Our dynamic limitations

A limit is the maximum amount of something; the amount of time we can spend reading, reps of some exercise, or information we can process in a given time. However, limits are not static. They can be expanded or contracted, depending on whether we push them. Limits represent imaginary lines that could serve as an indicator of our progress. If we can do only 10 push-ups, we aim for 11. If we can only concentrate on a text for 5 minutes, we aim for 10. In such a fashion, we will stretch this mental line. Limits may be set wrongly in our minds, however. We are capable of much more than we believe. There lies the importance of knowing ourselves. The only way to discover where our true limitations are is by experimentation. We need to check if we need more or less weight. 

## The actual definition

Such an effort is trying to go over that line every time, notice that little progress, and try to surpass it the next day. But giving the best of ourselves means more than that. Some day we will not exceed the line, so our objective should be the line. Some days we will not reach the line, so our objective should be going as close as we can to that mark. Some days we won't have time, nor mental strength,  despite this we keep giving all we have, as little as it may be. As described in "Make any activity an immersive activity", we need to pour ourselves into the task.

## We need to give the best of ourselves

There are factors we do not control; genetics, circumstances, materials, and whatnot. But giving the best of ourselves is one of the things we have control over. That is what the man at the outdoor gym inspires; it doesn't matter our current level on anything, if we do the best we can each time, and try to surpass our current limitations, we are bound to thrive. However, such a thing does not happen by itself. We will need self-knowledge to tell when to push ourselves further, or when to be kind, have a tighter or a looser grip,  recognize our true limits, and expand them. The process implies a conscious effort and documentation of our journey.


# unused

We set
the goal of going to the mountain's peak, but are frustated. After some initial
stroll, why isn't the speak getting any closer? We decide to walk, the path is
long and steep. We see some people jogging by, not seeming to take much effort
for them.



ourselves into the task. We need to give ourselves unreservedly, it does not
matter the circumstances, the conditions, external marks.












